With the bed springs and the crate paper flames. These are carnival carnival images that relate back To DMT when you finally come into the center of it These are all seen to be veils it it veils itself that way Because that's how you It's the old candy to the baby Routine it treats us as people who would like to go to the circus and then it takes us to the circus, but then there is a Revelation beyond that and I I don't know how many people present in this room have confronted the thing I'm talking about. I always at this moment. I'm aware that some people are saying My doesn't he perfectly get it and other people are saying, huh? What is this what is this guy talking about the point I want to make is it's real it's not vague You don't have to strain for it. Nobody wonders whether or not it happened to them It's just like somebody walking up to you and taking you by the arm and saying there's something I insist on showing you come this way, please And I I'm very it was the presence of the entities that shattered the person who I was because I was a scientific rationalist a Reductionist I had no no room for elves in my cosmology and here they were hundreds of them So it seems to me that this is a central question that shamanism has always dealt with Perhaps not with the kind of ontological Sophistication that we imagine ourselves to have but this is the question that must be asked who's in there Who is this? There are at least three possibilities And I'm not sure which is the most conservative the first possibility is that We don't understand how the world is constructed and that in fact there is a parallel universe running alongside of ours full of elves who use a language to make objects and Then why you can burst through to this place on this one drug, you know Then that raises each explanation raises a lot of questions then the other possibility is This is the Jungian Possibility and young and I can't remember which one it was but one of the later things he talks about these elves Because of the Kibiri the Kibiri are the alchemical children that appear in Act 3 of Faust that Jung spent a lot of time on these alchemical Kibiri and the question of the homunculus and He says at one place I think he says He describes them as autonomous psychic Elements that have escaped from the control of the ego This is a weird way to go about it, I mean, it's probably an accurate description But how much does it tell us, you know? It means that the psyche is to be visualized as a half gallon of mercury And when we throw it on the floor the mercury balls up and spreads everywhere and each ball of mercury you look at by By gad it has a little face looking back at you. That's because mercury is a mirrored surface You're looking at your own psyche shattered into thousands of pieces around you another possibility and one I leaned toward for years and I still Lean toward because I've noticed the radical nature of your explanation Diminishes with the distance since the last time you smoked a DMT The longer it's been the more likely you are to have some humdrum notion, but you can pour it into So the humdrum notion that I settled on was well clearly these are just extraterrestrials Extraterrestrials This is they don't come in silver ships Demanding to be taken to the National Defense Agency This is how they come why they come this way who knows they're coming through mind Mind is the medium in which they travel. Where do they come from? Who knows can it even be located in the Newtonian space-time matrix? I mean, what do you want here a star catalog number would that satisfy you? And then finally and I think I've exceeded my number of possible explanations And then finally the explanation which is my current favorite It just it's a little disturbing And I haven't quite figured out what to do with it, but I have a sense We're on the right track here. The reason the DMT space feels so peculiar both alien and Excruciatingly Familiar is Because these things in this other place Represent what I call an ecology of souls This place is the one place you never thought you were going to make a visit to and come back to Chat it around the coffee maker this they're dead That's who these things are. This is The realm of the dead. Well, I have to confess in all of my psychedelic voyaging and idea Mongering and all of that. I never was able to go that far to reach that far in my imagination It sort of had to be presented to me but if you go to shamans worldwide and Talk to them about their spirit helpers and say, you know, what's the deal with this? You know, who are these things as they say? Well, these are the ancestors. Didn't you know? These are the ancestors? It's perfectly cut and dried and normal I Had occasion I won't use his name to embarrass him but I had occasion to expose a very well-known Tibetan high mucky muck to DMT and He said after he took it like a man said afterwards That is the lesser lights That is the lesser lights and if any of you are students of Mahayana Buddhism You know that the lesser lights are the lights you see at the edge of the bardo as you start in to the 42 Day process of dying you encounter the lesser lights This guy was saying to me you cannot go further in the heat in the body and have any expectation of returning in other words Once you see the lesser lights you have stretched the umbilicus to matter to the breaking point If you go one step further It's eternity for you. Well, I don't know how I feel about this That the head tike I've had to then ask myself The head tike is that me? Do you actually encounter your dead? Soul, is there a dimension where you are both simultaneously dead and alive both? Simultaneously witness and observer. I don't know, but I certainly think that if we're going to use a conservative Explanation for these things the only comes the only theory more conservative than that. They are dead people is The theory that says that they are nothing whatsoever and that just simply will not serve I think it would come as a tremendous surprise to 20th century civilization if orthogonal to all our expectations of spaceflight and virtual reality and all this Techno schmuck no stuff that we're lining up in front of us. There would be a broadside From 90 degrees out of the unexpected and it would be a doorway swinging open into the realms beyond organic existence I Resisted this fiercely, but I just don't know what we're gonna do with these DMT creatures if we don't you know try to find a rational explanation and the Any rational explanation will be exotic because the facts of the matter are Exotic those of you who have not had this experience who are sitting there thinking it would never happen to me You're full of it It will happen to you. This isn't this doesn't require the willful suspension of disbelief this doesn't require a pure heart or dietary Prescription no this is part of the human birthright and the fact that we deny the existence of a non-human entity Intellect the intelligence on this planet is just part of our heritage from rationalism and you know, you don't have to take it very seriously because rationalism the Philosophy that gives us permission to deny the invisible world You know who founded the philosophy of rational materialism? Any takers Aristotle was early. I think I'd give credit to Rene Descartes for modern materialism and Rationalism. Well, you know who told Rene Descartes to found rationalism and materialism an angel Are you ready for this? This is a suppressed. This is a suppressed history Episode in the history of human thought here are the facts folks 1619 Rene Descartes is 21 years old. He's a young Frenchman in search of adventure He joins a Habsburg army that is going off to Prague to lay siege to Prague to put down an alchemical revolt there They kick butt on these alchemists win the war and they're on their way back to France and in September 1619 this French army camped at Ulm in southern Germany some of you may know Ulm as Einstein's hometown and in fact that figures in our story obliquely as you will see this French army camps at Ulm and Rene Descartes hits the hay and in the middle of the night an angel appears to this young man in the radiance of his rooms and Says the mastery of nature is to be achieved through number and measure Modern science is founded folks right there right then by an angel So how you know, how far away are the informing voices? How how rational is? Rationalism how material is materialism all of you must know I'm sure the famous story of Cuculli the the German chemist Cuculli who discovered the benzene ring He was a Struggling with this problem in the physical chemist chemistry could not figure it out fell asleep in his study and the or a boric serpent appeared before him in his dream and took its tail in its mouth and He came out of a sound sleep and said I've got it. He walked to the blackboard. He drew the first benzene ring angelic intervention intervention from the unconscious so I my the point of all this is to suggest that Human history is completely Interpenetrated by the peculiar the non-human that which has intentionality and affection for Mankind for humanity and this is what shamans call to their aid This is how the curing is done. It's done through these spirit helpers they're called elementals and So far as I know Jungianism is the only Modern intellectual position where you can even raise this issue without having a net dropped over you I mean, I mean, this is absolutely forbidden by the modern worldview And yet it lies very very close to the surface in our culture I mean as an example of how close to the surface it lies in our culture consider for a moment Santa Claus What's this about? Santa Claus is the master of the elves The elves that he is master of our demon Artificers they make toys for the world's children in their vast Underground toy shops and where are these underground toy shops at the North Pole? I don't have to tell a room full of Jungians that the North Pole is the axis Mundi Yggdrasil the magic world ash the center of the mandala What are the colors of? Santa Claus red and white the colors of amanita muscaria Absolutely, what is the titular animal of Santa Claus? Reindeer reindeer are very