the praises of some plant or drug the identity of which we cannot figure out or it becomes a big arm-wrestle between various competing schools of scholarship. We do not to this day know what Soma was. Gordon Wasson, who some of you may know as the discoverer, the modern discoverer of the mushroom cults of Mexico, founder of the science of ethnomycology, believed to his dying breath that Soma was Amanita muscaria, the red-topped white speckled Amanita. This is a mushroom which has a major role in Tungusic and Arctic shamanism but to say as Wasson did that this is the supreme entheogen of all time is not supported by the evidence I think. Wasson's own efforts to become intoxicated on Amanita muscaria were not successful. My efforts have not been successful. Occasionally you will hear anecdotal evidence. Someone will tell a story about eating Amanita muscaria that obviously they had a staggering breakthrough to a rupture of plane as Mercilio in his wonderful phrase but it's extremely undependable and when you look at the botany of Amanita muscaria you discover that its chemical constituency is seasonally variant, genetically variant, geographically variant and so forth. So often I think as we gain understanding of a given shamanism we will see that it depended on an extremely deep local knowledge and if you take what a Yakut shaman says about Amanita muscaria and attempt to apply it in the national forests of New Mexico, you know, you could end up with a tag on your toe. These things do, this kind of information doesn't travel well. One of the, one of the, you know, there are old shamans and bold shamans but there are no old, bold shamans. In looking at the Indian subcontinent for other hallucinogens that may have made a contribution, the obvious one to my mind is Stropharia cubensis, the mushroom which grows in the dung of cows and that the book my brother and I was wrote was about. Other possibilities, some of you may know that there are a family of the Argyria family of morning glories, an Asian family of morning glories distributed from India to Micronesia, 13 species all containing psychoactive ergot alkaloids, none with a history of human usage. Now this is another area which really fascinates me. Why do some plants become discovered by human beings and become the objects of cults which last millennia and others are never discovered at all? In societies absolutely obsessed with spiritual advancement, this Argyria nervosa is a perfect example because you take the seeds, the seeds are the active part and you don't need much of this thing. You need four or five seeds, less than a tablespoon of plant material which I would bet would make it per unit volume probably one of the most powerful hallucinogens in nature and the hallucinations are absolutely stunning and nobody has ever claimed this. It's free for the taking. This means you can cut a deal with an ally that doesn't belong to the Hindus, the Mayans or the somebody else. It's an unoccupied parking in hyperspace and it's very interesting. The discoveries are continuous. Just a year ago some phytochemists in the Midwest discovered a new plant. It's always been there. Nobody's ever taken it very seriously, treated it like a weed. Desmanthus Illinoisensis, the Illinois bundle weed. This is suggestive that it's called bundle weed because a medicine bundle is of course a shaman's mojo bag you know. But so bundle weed six percent by dry weight and in dimethyltryptamine the largest concentration of DMT in any plant and unclaimed by native people unknown to the folk medicine of the North American Indians as far as as we can tell. Well so this is very interesting. Continuing our survey since we're now somewhere on the Eurasian continent we should mention Papavar somniforum, the opium poppy. With cannabis this is probably the oldest human narcotic known. In the the later phase of Minoan civilization was entirely based on opium, on the use of opium. And in fact when Michael Ventress translated the tablets, the linear B tablets, they got these tallies and they thought at first that the symbol for opium must be the symbol for wheat because the tallies were so huge of the stuff being moved and sold. And then when they sorted out they realized no in the for the last thousand years of its existence the Minoan civilization drifted deeper and deeper into an opium narcosis that was its way I think of anesthetizing the pain of the death of this last outpost of the goddess religion because that's what it was. It was a cultural anachronism. While Asia Minor had gone over to god-king city states and bronze-tipped spears the people of Minoan Crete had kept the old old archaic religion that came out of Africa. And then in the last gasp of that Minoan culture those mysteries were handed on to the mainland of Greece and became the mysteries at at Eleusis and and other cult sites. It was said by the by the commentators contemporary commentators of the Hellenistic world the site the the rites practiced in secret at Eleusis are practiced in public at Knossos. And this this was the difference you know the going underground of the old proto Minoan mother religion. In modern times we have a horror of opium. I mean people are amazed that I even mention it in the same breath but it doesn't hurt to remind ourselves that this virulently addictive substance opium was not even noticed to be addictive by anybody until 1627 when the English physician John Playfair for the first time commented that opium once taken over a long period of time then there would be a requirement that it be taken throughout life. We're right in the middle of a drug war at the moment and it's interesting in that context to notice how the goals of drug wars can change. A hundred years ago the British Navy was involved in what was called the opium wars in China. Very few people in the modern world have bothered to inform themselves to find out that the opium wars were about the right of the British government to deal opium. The Emperor of China did not want opium dealt in the ports of China and the British government used cannon to enforce their desire to sell opium in the ports of China. Why were the English trying to sell opium in the ports of China? Because the tea trade had collapsed through overproduction and they were stuck with all these tea ships. They had created a whole global infrastructure for the sale of tea. When the market fell out on tea they just turned to opium. They grew it in Goa and they sold it in China. This was government policy less than a hundred and twenty years ago. Okay well moving on then from Eurasia and I'm sure I'm missing different things but if I missed your favorite thing bring it up in the question period to the North American continent and the North American continent is I almost said similarly cursed like Europe but that's just my prejudice. The North American continent is similarly poor in hallucinogens. There are no very interesting hallucinogens in North America and North American Indians, North American culture did not avail itself of this ecstatic plant induced shamanism. It tended more to go for what's called ordeal shamanism. The Sundance thing where you hang yourself by your pectorals on hooks and stuff like that. I mean there are other ways to attain these visions but you see that absence of good hallucinogens in North America just reinforced that whole beer and woolen and uptight thing that came from Europe. The only major hallucinogen to have a role in Native American culture is of course peyote and many people without informing themselves imagine that peyote is something which goes millennia into the past and that it and this is absolutely not true. Peyote use may well be less than a thousand years old among Native Americans. When you go back into the old graves and the old burial sites in the Rio Grande Valley and South you don't find peyote. What you find are the beans of Sephora secundifolia. You all probably know this plant though you may not know its name. It's the plant that produces the very hard red and black bean that they can can string. If you all know what cholerines are. These are erythrinas which are related to these things. Okay that stuff contains cytosine and cysteine. This is these are what are called ordeal poisons and it might be worthwhile to just talk for a minute about ordeal poisons. I said there's more than one way to skin a cat. There's more than one way to have this experience that shoves you through to an awareness of the numinous. That's what we're trying to do is have an awareness of the numinous. Well in certain parts of the world where hallucinogens were not present in the biome people concentrated on ordeal poisons and what an ordeal poison is is it's a chemical compound that you take it and you think you're going to die and you beg for death and you do not die. You get better. You're fine and you're so damn glad to be alive that you undergo an abreaction. You get straight. You shed some of your complexes and you make a you turn over a new leaf. This is what it is. Well in Madagascar these ordeal poisons have been brought to a high state of perfection. Also in Malaya there's a poison complex that replaces a hallucinogenic drug complex and these are horrific poisons. So what apparently was going on in the Rio Grande Valley was after centuries of this Sephora Secundifolia cult someone discovered peyote and said my god you know thank God. And then the other the other plant which was big in the in the Southern California, Northern Mexico and across the Southwest were the tropane containing detours the so-called Talach religion of Southern California. Well these are deliriant confusions that are unless you have a psychic constitution that is not like mine you can't take these things. They're too I just found them confusing. It was like a kind of madness and also physically very difficult to handle. I experimented I had a phase with these things when I was in Nepal because there are sadhus, holy men in the Kathmandu Valley who swear by this stuff and if you're in Kathmandu you may notice in the gutter well you'll notice plenty in the gutter but you may also notice these detour pods, empty detour pods and I noticed them and started asking questions and then out at the King's Game Preserve past Pashupatinath I found