Spirit helpers, they're called. Elementals. And so far as I know, Jungianism is the only modern intellectual position where you can even raise this issue without having a net dropped over you. I mean, this is absolutely forbidden by the modern worldview. And yet it lies very, very close to the surface in our culture. I mean, as an example of how close to the surface it lies in our culture, consider for a moment Santa Claus. What's this about? Santa Claus is the master of the elves. The elves that he is master of are demon artificers. They make toys for the world's children in their vast underground toy shops. And where are these underground toy shops? At the North Pole. I don't have to tell a room full of Jungians that the North Pole is the Axis Mundi, Yggdrasil, the Magic World Ash, the center of the Mandala. What are the colors of Santa Claus? White, the colors of Amanita Muscaria. Absolutely. What is the titular animal of Santa Claus? Reindeer. Reindeer are very central to the Amanita Muscaria cult because reindeer eat the mushroom and then excrete their urine. And this is thought to be a cleaner and easier way to take the mushroom than to take it on the so-called first pass. The second pass is after the reindeer have had it. Just an anecdotal aside, if you're ever in the Yakut basin, one of the great perils of the intoxicated Amanita user is to crawl out of the yurt in the middle of the night to take a leak in the snow and before you can back off, the reindeer come and knock you headlong because they want to get to this Amanita flavored snow. So here is Santa Claus right in the center of our culture and when you take it apart, all the motifs are there. The demon artificers, the elves, the cosmic axis, the magical flight. I mean, it's a beautiful example of the preservation of pagan psychedelic use into a modern context. What can we say about this? Oh, well, I know. The one thing, one more thing I wanted to say about it. This program that these tykes are pushing is a language skills program and we don't know how long people have been bursting into this place. This may be the source of language. Where did language come from? We learned it from elves in hyperspace. This is as good a possibility as any other and this is still ongoing, this language reformation program. They want us to activate our language forming ability and language in the DMT flash, as I said this morning, it's something beheld. Syntax is something potentially to be looked at, not to be heard and we don't understand this because for us language is something that you hear. We can't imagine a language that you see, but have you ever noticed the way in which we preserve clarity of intention in language with verbal metaphors? We say, I see what you mean. He painted a picture. It means we unconsciously believe that truth will be beheld and some of you who are students of the ancient literature may know Philo-Judeus, Hellenistic, Alexandrine Jew, absolute contemporary of Christ, born before, died after and in one of his treatises on the Logos, which he was always talking about, Philo-Judeus presents an etymology of the word Israel, talking about the word Israel and he says Israel means he who sees God. This is the meaning of the word Israel and then he goes on to say this he who sees God. He's talking about that and he says what would be the more perfect Logos? Now I should assume most of you know the Logos was an informing voice, a voice in the head which was the sine qua non of Alexandrian spirituality. Socrates had it, Plato had it, the Logos. So Philo-Judeus asks what would be the more perfect Logos and then he answers his own question. He says the more perfect Logos would go from being beheld, I'm sorry, would go from being heard to being beheld without ever crossing over a noticeable moment of transition. Well that is precisely what you encounter in deep psychedelic experiences and the DMT flash. You behold the Logos. In the initiation of the experience you don't behold it, you hear it. It sounds in Michael Harner's wonderful phrase like the sound of rushing water or like the sound of tinkling bells and it's very far away and then it begins to come closer. You begin to form a picture of it in your mind and the way you would form a picture of a Nepali marching band if you just heard it about a half mile away and the oom-pah-pah and it's getting bigger, coming closer. This is the elf parade and when it finally comes into view it actually goes without ever passing over a noticeable moment of transition from being heard to being seen through the phenomenon of approach. You hear it before you see it, then you see it far away, then you see it very close and when you see it very close who cares what it sounds like because you're seeing it. This more perfect Logos is what the tykes, the spiritual helpers, want to teach and I think that it's important to spend a little time on this because I think this would have tremendous historical impact upon our situation if we could by hook or by crook create a more visible Logos, a language which could be seen. You've probably all considered at some time or another what would telepathy be like and I think most people answer that question by thinking that telepathy would be for me to hear what you think but how would it be if telepathy were for me to see what you mean? That's telepathy. It puts you in the other guy's shoes. If you stand in the other person's shoes you are the other person. To have a person's point of view is to be that person in regard to that single datum of experience. So I've spent time with virtual reality people and all these technical folks because I think that visual language is something that wants to be born and it may be that it can be technologically coaxed into existence that we're going to have to wear goggles and have fast computers or it may be that it can be physiologically coaxed into existence. There may be drugs which shift the processing of language from being an auditory phenomenon to being a visible phenomenon. Ayahuasca is an excellent candidate for this. If you spend time with the ayahuasca-taking populations in the Amazon there's great stress in these populations on acquiring what's called an Icaro. Icaro means magical song and the Icaro is a spontaneous chant-like song which comes to you during the intoxication. The thing that's interesting about these Icaros is that they are critiqued as visual objects, not as sound. People never say of an Icaro, it sounded beautiful. They always say, it looked lovely. And then people will say, but there should have been more blue. This kind of thing, it's clearly being criticized as a visual modality. Well, I think that these ayahuasca-using people are at the cutting edge of evolution. For more UN videos visit www.un.org www.un.org