The best medium is rye malt agar. No question about it. Go with rye, organic rye malt extract. In today's climate, talk about access to shamanic pharmaceuticals for the average person. This is the where do I get it question, dressed up in respectable terms. Well, without being too self-serving, let me say my brother and I wrote a book on cultivating mushrooms called Psilocybin, the Magic Mushroom Grower's Guide by Otios and O.N. Neerik. I'm Otios, as you can see. And I really believe in growing mushrooms. If you are, as you sit here, not psychically strong enough or balanced enough to take psilocybin, then if you learn to grow it at the end of that process, you will be. Because growing the mushroom teaches you cleanliness, punctuality, attention to detail, steadiness, all of these virtues, which are the very virtues you need to travel smoothly in that dimension. Other hallucinogens, other shamanic hallucinogens that you will find easily available to you without breaking any laws. The heavenly blue morning glories sold in every seed store and garden store are not to be taken. Do not take them. They have been dipped in a fungicide that will make you sick. Grow them and collect your crop and take that. And this is a major hallucinogen of great antiquity, extremely visionary. The Hawaiian wood rose, you can obtain this from people who make dried flower arrangements, often have these. Pay attention, you want the Hawaiian baby wood rose. If they try to give you something called Hawaiian wood rose, a big clunky thing, that is inactive and won't do it. The detours are freely available. I do not recommend them. I recommend against them. But they're a common landscaping plant in Southern California. And the Jimson weed, of course, is growing out in the desert, out around Lancaster and other places like that. There are a couple of companies which have very forthrightly decided to sell plants with a history of shamanic involvement. I own no stock in these companies, so I can recommend them without fear or favoritism. One is called Of The Jungle, up in Sebastopol, California. And the other one is called Dream Gardens, and I think it's here in Santa Monica. Both of these groups publish astonishingly complete catalogs of psychoactive and shamanically important plants. Okay, that's access without going to the streets or committing crimes. Can you tell us any more about Illinois bundle weed? I just did. And that's really all I can tell you about it. All these questions are the same question. Having convinced us of the wonder of DMT, what would be the easiest and quickest way to obtain it? How does one acquire DMT? Comment about the Supreme Court ruling against the use of peyote by North American Indians. Very bad law, obviously. Law so bad that the National Council of Churches, the National Jewish Affairs Committee and some very large Catholic organization all filed briefs protesting this thing. And I think that it was actually realized that it was a goof and it will be brought back. You can't bring something back to the Supreme Court in a hurry because then that's unseemly. But I would bet that within five to ten years this will be overturned because a close reading of this law means that wine for Pesach or communion could be construed as a psychoactive substance. And the whole thing was this bad law, bad idea. Has consideration been given to the possibility that in the case of certain plants which are recounted in writings but the identity is unknown, that the reason they are unknown is because shamans purposefully kept their identity a secret. Perhaps such secrets are still being kept. This goes to this question I raised this morning. How can a powerful hallucinogen once discovered ever be lost? And I've only been able to figure out one scenario in which this could happen. It happens like this. People discover a wonderful plant that imparts visions or insight or something and everybody takes it and enjoys it and then slowly a hierarchy emerges, a professional class, priests and only they decree that only they will be allowed to take it. And then they lord it over the rest of society with an iron hand and then the rest of the society gets fed up with that and there's a slave revolt and everybody in the ruling class is killed and the sacrament is lost. I can't figure out any other way that it could happen. And the Vedic thing, this seems quite reasonable. Obviously Soma was being more and more confined in its use to a single class and then that class became viewed as obnoxious and its overthrow and the death of this sacrament then follow each other. Perhaps such secrets are still being kept. Perhaps they are. The fact that this bundle weed could turn up at so late a date probably means that there are shamanic lineages with secrets that we don't know. As a field ethnobotanist and an explorer I'm always interested in the unconfirmable rumor and there are some doozies. The mysterious beetle from eastern Brazil which causes intense hallucinogens if eaten. Here's a career for somebody. No hallucinogenic insect has ever been found and yet there are persistent rumors in different parts of the world of either a butterfly or a beetle that is hallucinogenic. Most shamans in the Amazon, if you spend five or six weeks with them and take ayahuasca with them and tromp around with them when you finally get to know them they will allow as how there is another magic which they call the magic of the big trees. And I've spent half my life trying to find out the names of the big trees and I'm still working on it. We have collectors in Peru and nothing is more exciting than a clump of rootstock or a seed packet that comes across our desk labeled suspect hallucinogen. That gets me to the edge of my chair. What do you think of Robert Monroe, the journey out of the body man? Well, this is a good time to discuss what do I think of all these other things on the spiritual market. I don't know what to think about them. I'm not a spiritual consumer. I've never been to a workshop that wasn't my own unless it was free. And there's a lot of stuff out there, you know. Astral traveling, channeling, all of this stuff. And I tend to either believe it's bogus or it's for people with a psychic constitution considerably different from my own. Sometimes people say to me, well, these states that you're talking about, can't they be achieved without drugs? Well, the answer to that is my God, who would want to? What would be proved by achieving these things without drugs? If the things I'm talking about began to happen to me without drugs, I would be very, very concerned and alarmed. Because, you know, I just don't... And also, I think there's something to be said for admitting that we cannot do it alone. That if you want this spiritual insight, if you want the Gaian Matrix to welcome you, then humble yourself to the point of making a deal with a plant. That's the key. You can't enter the bank without the key to the bank. The key to the bank is a plant. Jumping up and down outside the bank and exhorting the banker to recognize your inner worth and open the door is just not going to do it. I can understand that psychoactive alkaloids are a survival mechanism for the plants. Why is that effect psychoactive in man or perhaps animal? Well, first of all, maybe we have to argue with your premise. You're right that a lot of these so-called secondary and tertiary compounds are elaborated supposedly to make things taste bad so that birds will spit out things and stuff like that. But on the other hand, they've studied this question fairly closely. And a lot of these alkaloids are produced specifically to attract animals, to bring them in to nectaries and as pollinators and that sort of thing. Old-style botany always believes these compounds are what's called tertiary to metabolism, meaning they're kind of like waste products and not very important garbage. But when you look carefully at a psychoactive plant, invariably what you see is that the psychoactive chemistry is going on where metabolism is most active. This is an indication that actually these things aren't tertiary at all. They are doing something for the plant, but we don't know what it is. As to why they have this peculiar effect that they do in us, I think that's because there was anciently and over the evolutionary life of human beings actually a connection between us and nature and that these drugs are the antenna, the switches that switch us back towards the logos of the natural world. I suspect that all of nature is a seamless web of pheromonally mediated connections and interactions and that we are just not yet at a sufficient level of analysis and sophisticated observation to see this interconnected web. Our idea of nature is that it's all tooth and claw. Survival is the fittest and the devil takes the hindmost. The new version of evolution is entirely different. It says the way you attain survival is by making yourself indispensable to everybody else. So it's not by triumphing over the ecosystem, but by integrating yourself so thoroughly into it that it can't function without you. Then you're on your way to being a dominant species, not by crushing the opposition. Let's see how we're doing here. What are deconstructionists doing to our understanding of the language? Is it helpful? By deconstructionists, I suppose you mean Jacques Derrida and that crowd. Well, I think deconstruction serves a very useful function. I think we are unaware of how thoroughly language is the medium in which we swim, how thoroughly our world is built of language. In a way, the boundary-dissolving character of the plant hallucinogens is a dissolving of language barriers. They show you that the surface of reality was not the surface of reality. It was the surface of your local language. Now it's gone, and here is what lies beneath it. At what point in the evolution of organic matter on Earth do psychoactive plants appear and why? Interesting question. If we're talking about psychoactive fungi, we're severely limited by the fossil record because no fossil mushroom has ever been found older than 40 million years. This is because fossil mushrooms are very soft-bodied, ephemeral kind of thing. As primary decomposers, which is what fungi are doing on this Earth, it's reasonable to assume that they must have been here from the very beginning of the conquest of the land, but proof in the fossil record has not been forthcoming. Now if we're talking about higher plants, flowering plants, which is mostly what we're talking about here, then no flowering plants existed before 65 million years ago. Flowering plants emerged out of the same catastrophe.