And out of those resonances, then we form the images of these entities. I haven't seen the movie Contact, but I understand there is a message, and when you decode it, you build a machine, and then you go there. That's the plot. I would just change the plot to say there is a message. When you decode it, it tells you how to build a virtual reality, and then they are here. There's no dramatic... It's supposed to happen. Really? When they go through it, it's supposed to be a wormhole. Yeah, well, see, I don't think the wormhole is open all the time. When you look into the imagination to the degree that you can decondition your human expectations, the data will become more and more alien. I mean, I have done this with the mushroom. I've taken it, gotten stabilized in it and comfortable, and then said to it, Okay, we're cruising. Now show me what you are for yourself. Don't give me the version stamped suitable for human consumption. Give me the straight shot. Well, then the temperature begins to fall, black draperies rise, there's an enormous organ tone, and after about 30 seconds of that, you say, Could we go back to the suitable for human consumption version of this? Because to the degree that it truly bears its essence, you just shrink in absolute cosmic horror from what it is, because what it is is, you know, it's the mind that stretches between the galaxies. It's the thing, you know, it saw the coming of the Ra 500 million years ago. It knows the history of the local group. It possesses technologies that are so beyond the paltry imagination of man that for decency to even hint of these things is to transgress to some degree. So it comes as it can be understood. So it's a kind of mental calisthenics to train for. A friend of mine said, Every time I take mushrooms, my goal is to stand more, to stand more and say to it, OK, here I am again. Let's start where we left off. I'm ready to try and stand more. So people who think this is some kind of a lark or some kind of don't really. They are skimming the back of the beast. They're never really. It can take you further than you want to go. It won't usually. It's usually quite benign. It seems to sense our limitations. But if you present yourself as a warrior, it will give you a warrior's experience. And then the key coming out of all this is that the second part of it is the download. And we've been having these astonishing experiences now for 30, 40 years. Very hard to communicate with each other. Now we have the tools, the 3D modeling, the animation. Anybody can learn these things in a few weeks of application. And we need a higher definition, higher dimension language than small mouth noises to convey this stuff. We need to be able to see what we mean. We need to let other people see what we mean. We need to be able to freeze these incredibly complicated images and modalities so that we can then analyze them aesthetically, mathematically, energetically, and write papers about them and talk about it. I mean, this is the great new frontier, the human imagination. You know, it's only been 400 years since we discovered the lost half of this planet. I mean, you think we've got a hold on reality? That's how lame our story is. 400 years ago, it was a matter of debate if there was North and South America. And, you know, people just kept pushing and pushing. And sure enough, real estate beyond anybody's wildest dreams. Well, I think there's real estate in the imagination. I think it's the country we're all going to live in. We're like English colonials, restless with a mad king and waiting to book passage to the new worlds of America. Our sails are filling. The technologies exist to do it. And in 200 years, it wouldn't surprise me if the imagination was, you know, the major industrial and population center of the human world. People say, well, what does that mean? Well, who knows and why do you care? It's of the nature of an inevitability, a self-fulfilling prophecy. We have exhausted the exterior world, and yet the interior world beats like an enormous uncharted ocean. And what is ordinary historical consciousness but a tiny island protruding above that ocean? So as we grow in sophistication and in our sense of who we are and what we want to do in the cosmos, extremely exciting destinies, I think, will unfold for us. We've just fought our way out of the jungle, away from the influence of the glaciers. We've lopped off the heads of the other megafauna on this planet so we can have a little breathing room. Now we need to ask the question, you know, what is it all for? What is it all for? It can't be for masturbatory consumerism and gratification of the historical ego at the expense of all future generations. We've flopped on the seamy side quite long enough. It's time to be up and about the great and exciting business of being truly human for the first time. All right, that's the morning session. I'm going to have to run. Thank you very much. I hope you get massaged and so forth. I will be back at four. I wish I could stay, but I'm here so briefly. Okay, well, let's see here. I have one thing to put before you, which is just so you know how current we are and how cutting edge, I can tell you that this book called BOTS, The Origin of a New Species by Andrew Leonard, will receive a rave review in tomorrow's Sunday New York Times, which is not yet printed. And this is a book about the rise of AI. These bots, as you know, info bots, all kinds of bots running around on the internet, tracking down facts for you, doing all sorts of things. They are probably the embryogenic precursors of the kind of artificial intelligence that we've been talking about. This book was a gift to me and I've just been looking through it and it really looks like lots of fun and definitely cutting edge stuff. Probably won't be carried in the bookstore, at least not for a while. But that's BOTS, The Origin of a New Species by Andrew Leonard. Leonard, L-E-O-N-A-R-D. And it's a hardwired book. They are having a rough week up there too. Quite a week for turmoil in cyberspace. Yeah. I don't know what direction you're facing to go with. Even though this might be familiar territory for a lot of people here, it's the first time I've heard you in this workshop. And I was wondering if you could address some of the practical considerations like the various psychedelics and which ones that you feel have more value and why the importance of setting and approaching the psychedelic experience. Just your view. Yeah, my own psychedelic experience, I was pretty much very typical, I think, of people of my age and situation. I began to hear about sometime in the late... I guess in the early 60s it must have been. I read The Doors of Perception and it was fascinating to me, but I had no access to mescaline or anything else nor any knowledge of pharmacology or botany. And I then became interested in the counterculture and I subscribed to the Evergreen Review. I think I was the only person west of the Mississippi River who was getting the Evergreen Review in 1961, 62, 63. And they were publishing people like the French surrealist Andre Michaud. They published parts of Terry Southern's book Red Dirt Marijuana. And I just became obsessed with locating these things. My first attempt to get high was I had heard that Morning Glories would get you high. So I went out and gathered bindweed, which is this little Morning Glory like you see along the highways here, and had a hell of a stomachache. The first of many in pursuit of this. And then I... It wasn't until 63, 64 when I was a senior in high school that the last semester of my senior year in high school I went to Berkeley for Christmas vacation and finally was able to score some cannabis and smoked it all up. And it didn't seem to do what I had expected, but I was able to do incredible verbal performances, extemporaneous feats of heavy lifting. I could make up pseudo chapters of Melville's Moby Dick. I could just fall into these rhetorical things and rave. But it didn't seem to be getting me off from my own point of view. And then I went back down to Southern California to Lancaster where I was going to school of all places. Captain Beefheart graduated from the same high school I did. Antelope Valley Joint Union High School District. Yeah. Oh, there's the antelope. Huh? Zappa also. Geniuses just were pouring out of this school. And my friend and I began... We would take... We found a source of morning glory seeds, the real kind. And we would grind them up and put them in milkshakes and go out into the Mojave Desert. And I never had the explicit visionary eyes in the dark breakthrough because we didn't know how to do it. But we would look at the desert and I remember it always... It became more significant. Everything looked significant. And if you recall the vocabulary of Doors of Perception, it was that kind of thing. He said everything was glowing with iskite. And there's a lot of eyes-open stuff going on. Then I got to Berkeley, or before I went... I left Lancaster, came to San Francisco, got a job that summer. And across the hall in this flophouse where my friend and I lived was this very peculiar guitar-plucking character who later turned out to be Barry Melton of Country Joe and the Fish, the guitarist. And it was just a few months after this that they brought out that album Electric Music for the Mind and the Body, which was very happening. And I took acid that summer, Sandos LSD, in those little white capsules, and finally grabbed it one night on Green Street and just completely came to pieces. In fact, disgraced myself in several dimensions that nobody's ever been willing to explain to me fully since I gather my sexuality, my bowels, my everything.