I'm okay now. And the fact is, I've never found any reason to retreat from any of this. I don't know what it was about. I just know that, and I'm still riding on that trip. I never really came down. And I actually, it's somewhat, well, it's sort of hard to talk about, but obviously not that hard to talk about. But I actually do believe that I have superconducting harmine in my DNA, and that in a sense, this weird role that has been laid onto me and my linguistic facility, or whatever it is, is the thing, the thing speaking. And it's controlling at least my life, and I don't know how much of the rest of reality. The proof of all this now rests on time wave zero, which we got this bugger beat down into a mathematical equation. The discovery of the nature of temporality, and the way in which reality is put together out of a temporal hologram, a fractal of some sort. And yet, the absurdity has not been exercised, because time wave zero makes the preposterous assumption that the world will transform itself beyond recognition on the morning of December 22nd, 2012. And as I say, I can't explain it to you here, but it's fairly elegant, and it uses all of human history, all of biological evolution, all of geological history to make the point that we are being sucked toward a kind of black hole of concrescence that is what's causing human history. And when I ask the thing, as any reasonable person would, why us? Why us? It had a very simple and straightforward answer, which was because you don't believe in anything. Because you don't believe in anything. And then the other part of it was, and I was reminded of this by what Jonathan said the other day, the chance favors the prepared mind. Did I get it right this time? Because the other thing it said was, it had something to do with the mushroom, and it said, nobody, we've never met anyone. And by we, it meant the clone in the pasture at La Charrera, because this was some kind of isolated stropharia clone. It was hundreds and hundreds of miles to the next pasture. But in this pasture at La Charrera, this strain, which was later released into the American population as AMZ, was there, and it said, we've never met anybody before who had the I Ching in their head. It was like, this we can work with. We can take this piece of information, this primitive Chinese oracle, and it is sufficient to our needs to create a context for communicating what we want to communicate. And what we want to communicate is the hyperdimensional nature of reality. Time is not what you think it is. And we can use the I Ching to build a model that your primitive hominid mind can actually wrap itself around, and you can then, and then we can have the basis for a dialogue. So, I don't know, you can take this many ways. You can take it as a cautionary tale about psychotropic involvement, or, I don't know. I don't know. ...susceptible to this. We should be going the way out of this kind of foolishness. The true mysteries of this world do not require your connivance or belief in order to exist. They're able to exist quite independently, thank you, whether you believe in them or not. On the other hand, all forms of fraud and duplicity require the cooperation of the mark. That's you, if you're buying into these things. You know, the pocket is picked because the mark is asleep. The pockmarked crown can be passed off as a beauty because the mark is preconditioned to want to make the sale. We, psychedelics should liberate people from the tyranny of these projections from the unconscious. It's very fascinating to me to see how the defenders of these strange points of view, how phobic they are of psychedelics. They understand that psychedelics are a blowtorch to their ice cube. They don't want to get near it. They used to have the excuse that even though they were going to spend a lifetime criticizing psychedelics, they couldn't invest six hours to find out what it was about. Well, so then we brought them DMT, which lasts five minutes. So now the new excuse is, well, as a professional person, I don't choose to break the law. Fine, here's some alpha-salvinorin. It's unscheduled. It lasts five minutes. It'll cut your head off. Will you do it? And they say, well, no, I have a heart murmur or I have an appointment in 20 minutes or something. There is absolute terror to confront the reality of what this represents. And it's interesting who's afraid. Scientists are afraid. They say, well, I would lose my objectivity and we don't do it like that. I'm the observer, not the experiment. And we like to have things kind of off where we can handle them. So scientists don't want to do it. They sense it would destroy their ontology. And neither do the enthusiasts of the unanchored weird. They don't want to do it either because they say it rends your aura and, you know, redistributes your chi in unpleasant ways. And anyway, Babaji said not to and on and on and on and on and on. So it's, you know, we are apparently that statistically favored few that quite by chance, I suppose, in our lives managed to thread our way between the cilia and sharpness of these, of these. I, my mind's already made up. Don't confuse me with facts, positions. The only path in to the super normal that I found are the psychedelics. Everywhere else I found chicanery and fraud. I mean, I went to India. I visited some of the greats and I just found, you know, the eagerness with which they sought to determine whether you had any acid with you was a strong indicator of the power of their own spiritual methods. You know, mainly they wanted to score. It's a sobering thing to have the teacher you came 10,000 miles to see try to get you to cut loose three hits. I don't know. It's, it's, it's fun to be a free person. It's fun to not depend on an institution, an ideology and the other person, a place, a time. And it's very hard to sell this form of fun. People are afraid. People have been disempowered. I think through the process of the juvenile ization that we described last night, people define themselves as, as frightened children. You know, they want methods, gurus, partners, safe havens, stipends, sabbaticals. They just want all these things to make it easier for themselves, but they don't make them easier for you. If you have all that, you will be soft and mushy beyond reclamation. You know, you will contribute nothing to the human adventure. You don't want to just be a placeholder. There's no glory in being able to say, yeah, the 20th century. Yeah. I, I lived through it, contributed nothing, said nothing, had nothing to say about it, but I lived through it. A lot of people didn't live through it. You might consider that you're standing in their shoes and act out of a commitment to them and what they might have achieved. You know, I think about, I think often, strangely enough, about Anton Werburn, who was one of the great modernists of European music. Werburn was killed in the streets of Vienna in 1945 by an American G.I. for stealing a loaf of bread. You know, this, this is, this is what happened to European culture in the aftermath of the second world war. We have been incredibly privileged in the 20th century. Europe has been smashed to dust twice in the 20th century. All its dreams, all its assumptions, all its hopes cast into the frying pan. We had nothing like that. And again, I think it permits an enormous amount of foolishness in our society and an unwillingness to, to, to take things seriously, really. These things are not play things, fascism, futurism, communism. These things can ignite and consume whole societies. That means human lives. If we're really serious about new paradigms, I think we have to go to the bedrock of experience. It's not about rearranging or reshuffling the ideological deck. That's why the psychedelic experience is such a potentially liberating and revivifying thing. Because it is an experience and we have somehow traded out our experience over the past several hundred years. You know, it's a truism that television is geared at the 12 year old mind. It's probably a generous truism. Millions and millions of people live larval, low awareness lives, warehoused in the burbs, plugged into Costco and the telly. And, and as long as the magazine subscriptions stay subscribed and the credit cards continue to be serviced, the illusion that there is life happening here is allowed to, to continue. You know, I know that you're, I have a question that I'll get into why I'm asking the question, but it's hard to focus my thoughts because you're moving so fast in so many different areas. My ideas are slipping away as I'm trying to find a way to express them. But I guess this, this topic right now begs this question is that we're created in equal, all of us with equal amount of enlightenment and all of us with equal genetic sort of ability. And if you look at the world as an organism, as some people might do, and as you look at an ant colony and there are certain functions within different, you know, different types of beings within that, within that same society that had different roles to do different things. And you look at the human culture that perhaps there's a, you know, and if the world is an organism that perhaps there is a function for the people that are in the suburbs, you know, doing those things, perhaps that that's, there's only a certain amount of capacity within those people. And with various people have different capacities and certain people that are going to find their way to enlightenment or perhaps more able on other levels beyond, you know, not everyone's endowed with the same amount of ability to get there in the first place. And I was curious what you thought about that kind of theory. I know you're, you know, the code, the sort of co-evolution of man and mushroom and sort of bringing man to another enlightened state through the co-evolution of those two together. Perhaps there were certain areas that were left behind or certain people that maybe are less affected by that co-evolution or different cultures and within the world culture. And, you know, I'd marvel at, I can't find an explanation myself for why certain people just refuse to open their minds at any point. There's no way to penetrate and perhaps because that mind isn't there.