open a pipeline to the logos. We have to reach the goddess mind behind nature. And this means following the classical prescriptions of shamanism. It's true what they say. What the shamans say is truer than anything we can say about them. In other words, it's not that they're putting it through a language filter or that they're epistemologically naive or some horseshit like that. That's not it. It's you who are epistemologically naive. And me, we have no idea what is possible in nature, in positions of courage and high intoxication. So I see the whole 20th century as a very, you know, it's like trying to turn a battleship with an oar. It's very, very slow going. But with Freud and Jung, we get the discovery of the unconscious. I mean, they discover it through a spyglass at 900 yards, but they do announce that it's out there. And then, you know, through surrealism, abstract expressionism, psychedelic drugs, so we are now exploring this domain. The analogous cultural crisis is the late 15th century, the 1490s. Printing was invented in Mainz in 1440. By 1492, the new world had been discovered. We, it's 1490. We need to go somewhere. We don't know quite where, but you can almost taste it. What it is, is that we, I think, are getting set to take flight into what has always been our destiny. We're special. We are not outside the plan, but we're in a loop of the plan that the rest of organic nature is not participating in. We are the hands of the planetary mind, and the technologies that we have assembled are for the purposes of the planetary mind. Surely, it must sense the finite nature of the life of the planet and the star itself. We are a kind of strategy for moving energy around. Someone once said animals are a strategy invented by plants for moving seeds around. Well, I think human beings are a strategy invented by nature for catalyzing natural process. Clearly, the whole planet is being sped up. We are preparing to depart for a dimension which can only be called the imagination. This is what culture is. 8,000 years ago, when we began to crowd into cities and build walls and define everything into grids and mandalas, that was the beginning of the excrescence of mental space. That's what we're living in. These are all ideas. This was just unorganized matter put through the mills and presses of design to create a world that reflects the world that is living on the other side of our foreheads, the world of our imagination. But it has always operated against the background of the laws of physics, the strength of materials, the laws of gravity. You just can't build bridges with spans more than x or skyscrapers taller than y. But in the imagination, wishes are horses, beggars ride. This is the cultural dimension that we have the potential to create. I don't think that there's a way to manage this thing back down into the equilibrial pastoralism of 20,000 years ago. We burned those bridges. It's a real crisis. We will not recognize our grandchildren. The metaphor that gives me hope when I look at the world is the metaphor of birth. That must be what is happening. I mean, if you were suddenly to come around the corner of a building and encounter someone giving birth, the entire ambiance is of crisis, at least, if not alarm. I mean, pain is being felt, blood is being shed, anguish at high volume is being expressed. It's crisis. If you've never seen it, how could you believe that this was an ordinary part of existence scripted into being as a necessary part of its happening at all? It wouldn't take you like that. And yet, that's what is happening here. The mother and the child have now reached the moment where they must be parted. If they're not parted, toxemia will set in. This is bad for the child, bad for the mother. I'm not comfortable with this. I don't like this Gnostic thing of leaving the earth behind in any sense, even if we just descend and become the size of grains of salt and live at the center of the earth or something. It still means we're going to leave everything that we know and love and understand behind. But nevertheless, you reach these places in your life. The birth canal is the first one. Leaving home is the next one. And there are many leavings. It's just that this is a big one. We will never be the same. The earth will never be the same. And like the fetus or the, yes, poised at the head of the birth canal, we don't know where we're going. We really don't see light at the end of the tunnel. And neither does the fetus. This is the surrender issue. It's going to get crazy. They were so relieved when the craziness stopped after October and November and December. But don't be fooled. It was just a hesitation. The craziness is intensifying and intensifying. I believe that the transcendental object that is actually causing the lower dimensional phenomenon, which we call reality, that the transcendental object is coming tangential to the historical continuum. That that's what this is all about. That 100 years from now, the earth will be empty of people. There won't be a one, not a one. I mean, the breeze will move the grasses. We will be gone. Where? Guess. Who knows? Here's hoping. We have to find the door because the place is filling up with shit. It's very simple. And there are many doors. Here's a door. Extinction. How do you like them apples? If you can't find any other door, nature will kick open that door and push you right through it. And yet we possess creativity on a scale undreamed of. We can find a way out. There's no problem. We have the technologies, the money, the resources. We have everything we need except the will. It's a mental quality lacking in us. The will to do it, the will to undertake planetary sized projects, the will to make a plan that has a 20 year, a 50 year, and a 500 year benchmark. But we are going to have to very quickly cease our infantilism. And this brings me around to the fact that we are forever infantile if we do not avail ourselves of the psychedelic experience. It is on a par with sex. It makes my flesh crawl to imagine someone going from birth to the grave without ever having sex. Fortunately, life is scripted in such a way that few escape this edifying experience which most, if you question them around age 11, would seek to avoid. Well, the psychedelic experience is not made inevitable except by death if you insist on waiting that long. But a mature exploration of life includes it because it shows you who you are. It gives you a conducted tour of the captain's quarters. You may not have even known the captain's quarters existed. Now, how much is your ignorance worth to you? We need to eliminate the unconscious mind. This is really what it comes down to, folks. We cannot in an era of 30 minute delivery of thermonuclear weapons from anywhere to anywhere, we do not have the luxury of carrying around with us an enraged bull primate. We cannot afford the luxury of the unconscious, the hidden motive, the unexamined drive, the misunderstood acquisition. The only way we can correct our cultural situation is by returning to an archaic style. This is what societies always do when they're slammed to the wall. When the medieval world blew up on itself, they returned to the classic models of Rome and Greece and created classicism. Classicism was created in the 15th century, for God's sake. There hadn't been a Roman around for a thousand years. When a society gets into trouble, it reaches back. We've got trouble in River City, big trouble, and we have to reach further back, further, further. Egypt won't do. The Nazis tried that, it won't do. We have to go back to this high archaic shamanism. It's a hard swallow for individuals and society because we have made illegal this possibility because it is threatening to the dominance of the ego. The ego cannot coexist in the presence of a psychedelic religion or a psychedelic option. To my mind, this is the real issue behind this asinine drug war. Nobody is going to have an epidemic of heroin addiction or cocaine abuse if they legalize all this trash. That's ridiculous. We are going to have people experimenting with psychedelics if all drugs are legalized. That's absolutely terrifying to any establishment. Marxists, George Foote, you name it. Anybody who's got a stake in order is appalled at the notion that someone would examine the understructure and undercarriage of the social engine. They're not interested in that. That's what has to be done. We need a thorough revisioning of reality, a thorough recommitment to a revitalization of religion based on experience, not on the camp of priests, but on an experience. There's all kinds of stuff in the spiritual marketplace, yoga, spirulina diets, and colored lights. This is all, as far as I'm concerned, malarkey. These things do things. They move you around, altered states. My God, there are thousands of altered states. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about simultaneously shitting white with tears of joy streaming down your face because of the intensity of the proximity of the mystery. It's not difficult. It merely requires courage. Whoever went into the ashram with their knees knocking with terror over what the next yoga session would bring, give me a break. We're talking about the real thing, and you know what the real thing is. It is assimilated by an act of courage, an act of responsibility, and an act of understanding. If we commit ourselves back to this archaic thing, to the mind behind nature, it is our home, our birthright. I think of the human race as someone who became separated from their mother's hand in a department store for 15,000 years, and we've been running from department to department. Is it tennis rackets? Is it bicycles? Is it sleds? What is it? Shoot it. Chill it. No. No. We have to return to an authentic, psychedelic shamanism that is rooted