by natural selection, there is a tendency to mitigate against animals with broad food tastes because they are exposed to so many mutagens, things which split chromosomes and damage genetic material. However, if you're faced with extinction, your back is already to the wall. You can see the grim reaper drawing near. So at that point, expanding diet becomes a perfectly credible strategy for survival. And this is what happened to these formerly arboreal apes now descended onto the grasslands. They began to experiment with their diet. And in addition to the fruit that they had always eaten, they began to eat insects. They became carnivores. They began to evolve a hunting style. And I've personally observed in Kenya the food testing behavior of baboons. And I assume that it is very much analogous to the food testing behavior that went on in early proto-hominids and early human beings. The baboon will approach something, a potential food source, sniff it, look at it, place it in the mouth, but not swallow, sometimes for as much as a minute, and then either spit it out or swallow a small amount of it and then wait. And then if there's no immediate negative feedback from this, like vomiting or burning throat or constriction of mucus production in the throat or something like that, the food will begin to be accepted. In this grassland, which was nutritionally fairly tightly drawn, there wasn't an overabundance of food supply. There was, however, a parallel evolutionary event going on to the primate evolution. And that was the evolution of various forms of large ungulate mammals, primitive cattle, gazelle-type animals, wildebeests, horned animals, hooved animals of all sorts. And many of these animals had a style of existence in which they congregated in herds. Well, these herds of animals clearly represented the major concrescence or deposit of available protein in this environment. I mean, if you could kill a two or three hundred pound boss primitivo gensis or something like that, there was more nutrition represented in that than in several hundred acres of the gathering of corms or the raiding of anthills or something like that. So the pressure was intense to become carnivores, to focus on these ungulate mammals. And quite naturally, what evolved was a kind of nomadic pastoralism based on following along behind these large herds of animals. The other thing that was happening was there were very large and efficient carnivores on the scene, the equivalent of today's lions and the saber-toothed tiger and the hunting cats of the panther type. And many evolutionary biologists believe that the suppression of our sense of smell has to do with our actually passing through a phase where we predated on carrion. This is not a very pleasant thought, but what we were doing was letting the lions do the work and then we were coming along with throwing sticks and rocks and things like this, driving the lions and the panthers off these fresh kills and then eating this available meat. But it was pretty ripe in many cases, so there was pressure to suppress olfactory sensitivity. Now in fairness to these complex issues, I should tell you that another school believes that it was our bipedal gait that once we lifted up off our knuckles and literally got our nose off the ground, then there was a kind of atrification of the olfactory senses. So these two theories compete. But whatever was going on, there was interest in these large herds of ungulate mammals moving across this grassland environment, and a whole host of animals were relating to them as the central source of protein. Not only the large cat predators, but also the wild dogs of many types, up to and including the great timber wolf that has been extinct since the last glaciation, and then down to dingoes, jackals, hyenas, this sort of thing. So everybody was interested in these large herds of mammals. Well, a consequence of large herds of ungulate mammals are plenty of manure. Anybody who has been around cattle knows this. And here's where we begin to draw the circle of the plot tighter, because manure, food that has passed through the double stomach of these kinds of animals, is the favorite medium for certain kinds of mushrooms, mushrooms which are called coprophilic or coprolitic, meaning dung-loving mushrooms. This is the preferred medium for them to carry out their life cycle in. And again, based on my observations of baboons in Kenya, I've seen them approach cow pies, is the gentle term for these deposits of fecal material, approach a cow pie and flip it over. What they're doing is they're looking for grubs, beetles or immature beetle larvae. They understand then that the manure deposit is a vector for insect protein in this environment, and having a limited amount of energy, they look for food in the place where it's likely to be. However, by a marvelous coincidence or superb planning on the part of the extraterrestrials who rule the galaxy, you can sort of choose your poison. Ah, the lunatic fringe is not unrepresented. Good, good. Of which I number myself among them. Yes. So these coprophilic mushrooms, particularly Stropharia cubensis, which is the one that is pandemic, meaning occurs worldwide, I have seen them in the Amazon the size of dinner plates. I mean, you can't miss this thing. It is the most astonishing object in the grassland environment. And after a period of rains to walk out into a grassland environment and see these things by the dozens and then by the hundreds and always vectored in on the same cow pies that are of interest to these foraging baboons, you see then that by design or destiny, the mushroom was placed directly in the path of the foraging proto-hominids. Well, and would certainly have been tested for its food value in the same way that I described baboons testing other plants. Well, aside from the fact that Stropharia cubensis contains psilocybin, it is delicious. It is delicious in the fresh form. Well, delicious is just a monkey's way of saying that it's good food. If you find something delicious, you will overrule almost all other signals coming off of it to chow down on it. So the mushroom is delicious. Well, what then are the possible consequences of the inclusion in the human diet of a psychoactive compound like psilocybin? Well, it has three consequences, and I believe that this simple three-stage process answers this supposed unanswerable question about the origin of human cognition and human value systems and language. And it's very simple. It's easy to understand. It doesn't require a leap to faith. Let's hope I can remember it. The first consequence of allowing psilocybin into the diet of a foraging hungry proto-hominid of that type is an increase in visual acuity. I don't think this is widely known. Since psilocybin is called a hallucinogen, people might imagine that it distorts reality or you can't see what's really in front of you. Well, that may be true on a dark night on a high dose, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about an animal which is foraging, eating insects, eating roots, eating whatever it finds, and including in that a small amount of randomly contacted psilocybin mushrooms. Roland Fisher, a psychologist, physiologist at the National Institute of Health in the early 60s, gave psilocybin to thousands and thousands of people, and he studied the effect of low doses on vision, and he built an experimental apparatus which had two metal bars which were ordinarily in parallel, and by turning a crank out of sight of the graduate student or the person being tested, he could deform the relationship of the bars so that they would slowly slip out of their parallelism and into a skewed mode, and this is very straightforward psychology one perceptual kind of experiment, and he showed very conclusively with thousands of people that on small amounts of psilocybin, people could pick this up much more quickly. They were asked to push a buzzer when they thought that the two bars were no longer parallel, and the people who were very lightly stoned were consistently able to do this, to grok this more efficiently than the people who had been given placebo, and Fisher, who was a kind of a gnome himself, said to me about this. He said, so you see, here's a case where taking a drug actually gives you better information about reality than if you hadn't taken a drug. Incontrovertible proof, scientific experiment, beyond argument, and though it may have no consequence if you're dealing with a group of 25 graduate students in a class on perceptual psychology, visual acuity is the thread by which life and death are hung if you are foraging primates in a nutrition-poor environment. If you can't see the food you're looking for, the gentle hand of natural selection is going to quietly move you toward extinction. So to give you an idea of the power of that chemical in that situation, think of it as chemical binoculars. It doesn't take, you don't have to be a rocket scientist to see that if you're handed a pair of chemical binoculars in a hunting situation, you're going to be a more effective hunter. So on that first level, a level highly unconscious, a level where these proto-hominids are simply trying to get enough to eat, those that were willing to accept psilocybin into their diet had a slightly enhanced probability of survival through enhanced supply of nutrition than those who didn't. This is the first level on which the use of psilocybin would tend to outbreed the population that was not accepting it into the diet. Okay, as we all know, there's more to psilocybin than increased visual acuity. At slightly higher levels, still well below