There is an archetype which surrounds DMT which you must make your way through it But at the center of the archetype the archetype is not present and only the alien is Present the archetype is that of the circus or the carnival the carnival Think for a moment about the carnival it has two aspects one is blazing light and Activity at the center of the triple ring the lady in the spangled costume is high above the main Floor and the Lions and the Tigers and the clowns are parading around that's part of it But it has another aspect just off to the side of the big tent There are the sideshows the hoochie-coochie Dancers the two-headed man and so forth and so on in other words. There's this kinky Peculiar shadow side of it and I often If any of you are fans of the film of Federico Fellini Here is a man who understood the archetype of the circus and how in if you remember in Amarcord That circus or if you remember in Giulietta di Spiri the the flaming Doorway into the room with the bed with the bed springs and the crate paper flames These are carnival carnival images that relate back To DMT when you finally come into the center of it. These are all seen to be Veils it it veils itself that way because that's how you It's the old candy-to-the-baby Routine it treats us as people who would like to go to the circus and then it takes us to the circus but then there is a revelation beyond that and I I don't know how many people present in this room have confronted the thing I'm talking about I always at this moment. I'm aware that some people are saying my Doesn't he perfectly get it and other people are saying, huh? What is this? What is this guy talking about? The point I want to make is it's real. It's not vague You don't have to strain for it. Nobody wonders whether or not it happened to them It's just like somebody walking up to you and taking you by the arm and saying there's something I insist on showing you come this way please And I am very it was the presence of the entities that shattered the person who I was because I was a scientific Rationalist a reductionist. I had no no room for elves in my Cosmology and here they were hundreds of them So it seems to me that this is a central question that shamanism has always dealt with Perhaps not with the kind of ontological Sophistication that we imagine ourselves to have but this is the question that must be asked who's in there Who is this? There are at least three possibilities And I'm not sure which is the most conservative the first possibility is that We don't understand how the world is constructed and that in fact there is a parallel universe running alongside of ours full of elves who use a language to make objects and Then why you can burst through to this place on this one drug, you know Then that raises each explanation raises a lot of questions then the other possibility is This is the union Possibility and young and I can't remember which one it was but one of the later things he talks about these elves because of the Kibiri The Kibiri are the alchemical children that appear in Act 3 of Faust that young spend a lot of time on these alchemical Kibiri and the question of the homunculus and He says at one place I think he says He describes them as autonomous psychic Elements that have escaped from the control of the ego This is a weird way to go about it. I mean, it's probably an accurate description But how much does it tell us you know, it means that the psyche is to be visualized as a half-gallon of mercury And when we throw it on the floor the mercury balls up and spreads everywhere and each ball of mercury you look at by By gad it has a little face looking back at you. That's because mercury is a mirrored surface You're looking at your own psyche shattered into thousands of pieces around you another possibility and one I leaned toward for years and I still Lean toward because I've noticed the radical nature of your explanation Diminishes with the distance since the last time you smoked a DMT The longer it's been the more likely you are to have some humdrum notion that you can pour it into So the humdrum notion that I settled on was well clearly these are just extraterrestrials This is they don't come in silver ships demanding to be taken to the National Defense Agency This is how they come why they come this way. Who knows? They're coming through mind mind is the medium in which they travel. Where do they come from? Who knows? Can it even be located in the Newtonian space-time matrix? I mean, what do you want here a star catalog number would that satisfy you? And then finally and I think I've exceeded my number of possible explanations And then finally the explanation which is my current favorite It just it's a little disturbing And I haven't quite figured out what to do with it But I have a sense we're on the right track here The reason the DMT space feels so peculiar both alien and excruciatingly Familiar is Because these things in this other place Represent what I call an ecology of souls This place is the one place you never thought you were going to make a visit to and come back to Chat it around the coffee maker this they're dead. That's who these things are This is the realm of the dead Well, I have to confess in all of my psychedelic voyaging and idea Mongering and all of that. I never was able to go that far to reach that far in my imagination It sort of had to be presented to me But if you go to shamans worldwide and Talk to them about their spirit helpers and say, you know, what's the deal with this? You know, who are these things? They said well, these are the ancestors. Didn't you know? These are the ancestors? it's perfectly cut and dried and normal I I Had occasion I won't use his name to embarrass him But I had occasion to expose a very well-known Tibetan high mucky muck to DMT and He said after he took it like a man said afterwards That is the lesser life That is the lesser life and if any of you are students of Mahayana Buddhism You know that the lesser lights are the lights you see at the edge of the Bardo as you start in to the 42-day Process of dying you encounter the lesser lights. This guy was saying to me you cannot go further in the in the body and have any Expectation of returning in other words Once you see the lesser lights you have stretched the umbilicus to matter to the breaking point if you go one step further It's eternity for you. Well, I don't know how I feel about this That the head type I've had to then ask myself The head type. Is that me? Do you actually encounter your dead soul Is there a dimension where you are both simultaneously dead and alive both? simultaneously witness and observer I don't know, but I certainly think that if we're going to use a conservative explanation for these things The only comes the only theory more conservative than that. They are dead people is The theory that says that they are nothing whatsoever and that just simply will not serve I think it would come as a tremendous surprise to 20th century civilization if orthogonal to all our Expectations of spaceflight and virtual reality and all this techno schmeck no stuff that we're lining up in front of us There would be a broadside from 90 degrees out of the Unexpected and it would be a doorway swinging open into the realms beyond organic existence. I Resisted this fiercely, but I just don't know what we're gonna do with these DMT creatures if we don't you know try to find a rational explanation and the Any rational explanation will be exotic because the facts of the matter are Exotic those of you who have not had this experience Who are sitting there thinking it would never happen to me You're full of it It will happen to you. This isn't this doesn't require the willful suspension of disbelief this doesn't require a pure heart or dietary Prescription. No, this is part of the human birthright and the fact that we deny the existence of a non-human Entity intellect the intelligence on this planet. It's just part of our heritage from rationalism and you know, you don't have to take it very seriously because Rationalism the Philosophy that gives us permission to deny the invisible world You know who founded the philosophy of rational materialism? any takers Aristotle was early. I think I'd give credit to Rene Descartes for modern materialism and rationalism well You know who told Rene Descartes to found rationalism and materialism an angel Are you ready for this? This is a suppressed. This is a suppressed history Episode in the history of human thought Here are the facts folks 1619 Rene Descartes is 21 years old. He's a young Frenchman in search of adventure He joins the Habsburg army that is going off to Prague to lay siege to Prague to put down an alchemical revolt there they kick butts on these alchemists win the war and they're on their way back to France and in September 1619 this French army camped at Ulm in southern Germany some of you may know all as Einstein's hometown and in fact that figures in our story obliquely as you will see this French army camps at Ulm and Rene Descartes hits the hay and in the middle of the night an angel appears to this young man in the radiance of his rooms and Says the mastery of nature is to be achieved through number and measure Modern science is founded folks right there right then by an angel So how you know, how far away are the informing voices? How how rational is? Rationalism how material is materialism? All of you must know I'm sure the famous story of Kekule the the German chemist Kekule who discovered the benzene ring? He was a Struggling with this problem in the physical chemist chemistry could not figure it out fell asleep in his study and the or a boric serpent appeared before him in his dream and took its tail in its mouth and He came out of a sound sleep and said I've got it. He walked to the blackboard. He drew the first benzene ring Angelic intervention intervention from the unconscious, so I my The point of all this is to suggest That human history is completely Interpenetrated by the peculiar the non-human that which has intentionality and affection for mankind For humanity and this is what shamans call to their aid This is how the curing is done. It's done through these spirit