that we call the fall into history is the scenario of abandonment that we underwent as we broke the umbilical connection to the Gaian matrix of organic life. That's what we were embedded in, in this African context. But when Africa dried up, and we moved out of Africa and into the Middle East, we then were transformed from nomadic pastoralists into primitive agriculturalists, and then later city builders, and the entire pattern of male dominance and anxiety is set in place. If you look at the world of 7000 BC, the most sophisticated human structure on the earth of, let's say, 7500 BC is at Jericho, in what is now Palestine. And what is it? It's a grain storage tower built at Jericho, 7275 BC. It indicates that the primitive pastoral nomadic form has given way now to an agricultural form that allows for the accumulation of surplus, and hence the need to defend same, and hence the establishment of a have-and-have-not psychology, and so forth and so on. So all of the institutions that we now must attempt to reform and grapple with began then. Urbanization, kingship, male dominance, representative politics, all of these things begin then and are further exacerbated a couple or three thousand years later by the Western decision to go with a phonetic alphabet as a method of communication. See, a phonetic alphabet further removes you away from anything concrete or real or related to nature. There's no ideogram, there's no glyph, there isn't even a rebus. There is simply an abstract symbol which stands for a sound. I mean, this is about as far away from the hands-on approach of language that you could get. Well, the culture that made these decisions, which is our culture, the culture of Europe and the ancient Middle East, has evolved into the dominant culture on the planet and has put in place institutions like science and so forth and so on. Our metaphors have grown ever more cogent in their ability to manipulate matter and energy as they have evolved less and less relevance to ourselves. So now we have ideological systems of tremendous power that none of us can understand or relate to, which is a kind of an odd relationship to knowledge, since knowledge is supposed to be an experience of empowerment, not an experience of disempowerment. But our society has done it differently and so we all wander around with a sense of disempowerment because we're surrounded by accomplishments that we couldn't possibly duplicate. Well, I mention all this because I think that it shows where the solution lies. If we were in balance 15,000 years ago and it was achieved through the use of psychedelics, de-emphasis of the ego, non-existence of the nuclear family and the suppression of the concept of ownership, we should look at these as possible styles of existence that might be put in place in the future. That's this psychedelic society that you've heard me talk about at various times. Well, that's probably enough on that. Bill, you thought so too. When I said we'd look at the geographical distribution, the history, and then the phenomenology, I thought that we would put most of the phenomenology of the thing in here, in this section, because it's important to establish just what we're talking about and also to empower people to describe their own experiences, which are often so peculiar that unless there is a group such as this, a person tends to just define themselves as starkers. I mean, what else can you say about some of this? But, you know, if you're starkers and you get ten people to agree with you, you're not starkers anymore, you're a movement. So I mentioned this morning about DMT, and I made of it the kind of paradigmatic compound because it's so brief, so natural, so powerful, so quick to recover from. And it's also a very good paradigmatic case when talking about what the psychedelic experience is like to have because I think if you have the DMT experience on the way to the center of that flash, you'll probably have all the other ones. It seems to lie at the center of the mandala. The most startling thing about the DMT flash, and I mentioned this this morning when we were talking about Jung, is how astonishing it is, that death by astonishment seems the major danger. And this is even if you're an art historian, a Jungian, an aficionado of symbols and so forth and so on. It seems to come from some dimension orthogonal to the human world. And it is not a unitary experience, the way the famous white light and all these other wordless, indescribable, elusive, mercurial things are. It isn't like that at all. It's extremely multiplistic, and it's extremely specific in its presentation. And when you smoke DMT, you have the feeling that you have burst into a place that you have not had a psychological experience. You are not having a mental experience. You have burst into some kind of a space. And within that space, the first shock is that it's inhabited. And this is the shock I've never recovered from, because it was just the last thing I expected to find inside a chemical compound was the equivalent of a Bugs Bunny cartoon. It is inhabited by entities, is the only word to describe them. And they are, as I've said many times, they are like jeweled, self-dribbling basketballs. And there are many of them. And they come out of the background, and they present themselves to you. They're literally vibrating up and down with excitement. They're faceted and rotating. And they see you as clearly as you see them. They even greet you. Some of you may recall the Pink Floyd, the old Pink Floyd song, the gnomes have learned a new way to say hooray. I think it's on Piper at the Gates of Dawn. The first album, those Floyd fans were looking puzzled. It's because it was 40 years ago or something. Anyway, as you burst into this space, the gnomes say hooray. And they present themselves, and they are truly the gnomes of Central European fairy tales, archetypal gnomes. They sing, and out of their singing, elf and chatter condense objects which look like nothing at all in this world. I mean, the closest I've been able to come to them are the eggs of Fabergé, these constructs in sapphire and ivory and crystal and vitreous glass that the French designer Fabergé created. Well, these things are like that, but they're like that raised to some excruciating pinnacle of completion, because as they show you these objects, you know beyond any possibility of contravention that if a single one of these objects were to exist in this world, it would change this world forever. If a single one of these objects were to exist in this world, we would spend a thousand years studying this object. The last time this happened was a guy gave a speech up on a hill about moral obligation. We studied it for a thousand years. This is the same kind of thing, and these Fabergé hyperdimensional objects are themselves undergoing a dynamic transformation. They're not static objects like the Fabergé eggs. They are undergoing changes, singing, condensing other objects. These objects are crawling all over the ground in front of you, clamoring for your attention. Now remember, 12 seconds before you were sitting in a suburban living room somewhere grappling with some drug somebody wanted you to take. Now all that's gone, and here are these things. I call them tykes, because I wanted to capture the sense of their childlikeness. I don't know why I call them tykes, actually. It just seemed like the appropriate thing. If some of you are classicists or students of the literature of the pre-Socratic philosophers, you might recall the 52nd fragment of Heraclitus, which says the Aeon is a child at play with colored balls. The Aeon is a child at play with colored balls. And when you break your way into the presence of the Aeon, it's extremely, I don't know, it's upsetting. You can't believe it's happening. There's a lot of cognitive dissonance. You could believe this if it just weren't happening to you. And there is this tremendous affection and interest in humanity, and then there is urgency, a lot of urgency. The tykes want to initiate you. They have a message. And the message is, you can do what we are doing. And what they're doing is using their voices to make physical objects condense out of the air. And they're saying, you can do this. Do it. Do it. Do it! And they're on you, and they jump in and out of your chest, which is something that is described in the Amazon, too, in the Hikuli, in the tryptamine snuff cults of the Yanomamo. They jump in and out of your chest, and they are saying, do this thing. Do it. Do it. Suspend your belief. And eventually you do do it. You discover that you can drop the filter of meaning, that your voice can move back several registers, and out comes elf chatter. And this elf chatter is able to wring the air in front of you like a washcloth and get alchemical gold to drip out of the air and to begin to condense in front of you. Well, by this time, most people would like to call time out so they can make phone calls to various philosophers. But there is no time out. It just keeps going. And these things have a very... The aura of strangeness, of alienness, is palpable. There's an emotion in there that we just don't have in this world because it's composed of unbelievable alienness in the presence of unbelievable familiarity. It's an ecstasy that is a coincidencia appositorum. Simultaneously, it is both what it is and what it is not. And the human mind can't handle that. That's called cognitive dissonance. I mean, you just go into a conniption fit of some sort. Well, the very first time I smoked DMT in 1967, with absolutely no expectation, this happened to me. And it has happened every time since. And then I've had occasion to observe people taking DMT in countries where it's legal. And what I see is there is an...