I think of this talk as the mushrooms and evolution talk, and we will rove and scan over that subject, but it also has, it arborizes into many other areas of concern. It's not simply a revisioning of anthropology or primatology or evolution. It is all those things, but more importantly, it's a revisioning of those concerns that then carries a political and social implication for the moment and for how we all lead our lives. And it's basically a variation on the hero's journey, and I'm very indebted to a brilliant woman anthropologist. I've never met her, but her book had a great influence on me, Miss Sia Landau. She recently wrote a book called Narratives of Evolution, and she pointed out something that I think has needed to be pointed out for a long time, which is that science is simply campfire stories in another guise. And you'll see what I mean as I get into this, because I want to tell you a campfire story about a poor but humble primate who came from the fringes of the action, a minor member of the flora and fauna of this planet, who embarked on a long and arduous journey into time and had many adventures along the way and had many allies along the way and overcame great challenges to attain the gift difficult to come upon, the grail, if you will, or the self. I mean, all fans of Joseph Campbell are familiar with this metaphor of the hero's journey. And what's interesting is we actually have made that hero's journey. We are, all of us tonight, sons and daughters of the ancestral heroes who overcame drought, glaciation, disease, famine, earthquake, migration, you name it. They didn't drop the ball, and thanks to them we're here tonight. And normally the beginnings of this great journey are completely cloaked in mystery. It's taught in orthodox anthropology courses. No one knows the factors which impelled human beings to leave the primate existence in the canopies of the great forests of Africa and to adopt new styles of life in the grasslands, new diets, trading in vegetarianism for being omnivores, trading in a life of fruititarian luxury for a life of hunting, struggle, migration, and natural selection in an extremely harsh environment. I believe that the reason that this seems so mysterious to straight primatologists and anthropologists is because they have been unwilling to look carefully at the role that plants played in this adventure, particularly the role that psychoactive plants may have played, and then, most appropriately for this gathering tonight, the role that certain species of psychoactive mushrooms must have played in this evolutionary adventure. And so tonight I would like to go through it with you in fairly close detail because I haven't had that many original ideas in my life, and most of what I do is book reviews and regurgitation of other people's ideas. But this one they handed over to me, and I've been told by evolutionary anthropologists that I'm welcome to it. So if I don't make the case, who will? And if not now, when? And if not here, where? The great mystery of natural life on this planet is ourselves. We stand out in the natural order of things as something completely unique, unexpected, unpredictable. You could not calculate forward from the pinnacle of the age of mammals some 30,000 years ago. You could not calculate forward to a world such as we have today, a world of enormous cities globally dispersed, linked instantly by electronic media, a world of art, warfare, neurosis, vision, religious yearning, hope, despair. All of these things are the unique contribution made to reality, existence, if you will, by the existence of the qualities in us which we call humanness, which set us aside from the rest of organic existence. I mean, I know that dolphins discuss arcane matters among themselves, and bees dance the directions to the flowers, and animal communications occurs among pack-hunting dogs of various sorts. But clearly, we are something of another order. And accounting for this other order of being that is so present in us has been the major concern of both what we call religion and what we call science, in the sense not of physics and chemistry, but of biology, anthropology, and psychology. How to account for the uniqueness of our species, and then the uniqueness that is present as a moment-to-moment fact in each one of us. You have to go back to the origin scenario. Look at the other theories in place, and then look at the possibilities for theory-making that are offered if we're willing to include the presence of a psychedelic substance in the experience and diet of early human beings. For several million years, the great apes had been evolving into tighter and tighter niches in the climax tropical rainforests of both the new and old world. And at a point, it's very difficult to place because it's locked into the gradually shifting dynamics of climate on this planet. These forests began to retreat. They began to diminish because of absence of rainfall over very long periods of time. And we know that many primate lines went extinct at that point. But one primate line, the anthropoid apes, were able to evolve a new lifestyle in the grasslands, which were evolving as the forests retreated. Now, some anthropologists have argued, to my mind, very convincingly, that there is no such thing as a natural grassland, that grasslands are caused by fire, human burning. The argument is very easy to understand. It's that all the species of plants you find in the grasslands, you also find in the understory of the forests on the borders of the grasslands, but you find only a small number of the forest species represented in the cleared areas. For an evolutionary botanist, this clearly means that the grasslands are extraordinarily recent, wherever they occur all over the earth. And this includes the high-altitude grasslands that are called savannas. I think that the missing link in evolution is probably food. Somebody once accused me of trying to recover the lost history of mankind, and I said, no, simply the lost menu of mankind. Well, what was that menu, and how did it impact upon us? First of all, before we discuss psilocybin mushrooms specifically, I'd like you to think about the ways in which we differ from other primates. We maximize what is called neoteny. Neoteny is this phenomenon in which juvenile characteristics are retained into adulthood, and this is a particularly effective strategy in any situation where you're up against a kind of evolutionary bump in the road or barrier of some sort. Many species show a tendency toward neoteny, but it's very strongly expressed in human beings. For example, our hairlessness. We are like infants. All primates are born pretty much hairless, but we retain this hairlessness throughout life. The ratio of our skull size to body size is an infantile ratio. Compared to other primates, we look like the juvenile form. We never lose that. The extreme length of human childhood and adolescence is a kind of strategy that a lot of developmental goings-on can occur outside the womb. You probably know that a deer or a calf is able to stand within hours of being born. A human infant, this is something they struggle to acquire in the first 18 months of life. What was it that promoted this neoteny? What was it that promoted our upright gait? What was it that promoted our acquisition of language? This is critical, and I'll talk more about this later. Language is the great divide between us and other species. Where it exists at all as a tendency in other species, it exists as a very rudimentary, unschooled tendency. For us, it has become almost the raison d'etre of our being. Physical evolution ceased in the human species when we began to elaborate languages and the technologies that follow upon them. We have designed a way around the slower-than-glaciers modification of species that exists where you have random mutations being acted upon by natural selective forces in the environment. Until the invention of epigenetic, meaning non-genetic forms of coding, which means language, dance, theater, myth-telling, and so forth and so on, until that great leap was made, we were as much an animal as any other animal on this planet. So what happened was this. The forests retreated. These environments where food had been very abundant became nutritionally stressed. The diet had to be expanded. The choice was simple. Expand your diet or die. Well, now, it's interesting. Most animals have a very narrow range of foods which they will accept. This reaches its greatest expression in insects, which some of you may have learned as children that if you find a caterpillar walking around on the ground and you just put it on the nearest plant and by chance you chose the wrong plant, it will die rather than eat that plant. Insects are very, very food-specific. Most animals are. Now, why is this? You would think that it would be a better strategy to be able to eat a lot of things. The answer is foods are chemically extraordinarily complex, and chemical complexity is another way of saying potentially toxic or mutagenic, and mutation is the undoing of any species or any adaptation. So there is an effort by organisms to avoid... It isn't a conscious effort. It's enforced by natural science.