Logos, but in the critical quote, what he said was that a more perfect Logos was possible and that it would be a phenomenon which would pass from the modality of being heard to the modality of being beheld without ever crossing through a quantized point of transition where you could say, it was one, now it is the other. And I think the cultural shockwaves that will be generated by the emergence of visible language will totally transform the culture to the point that the point beyond the end of history, the entry into hyperspace, the eschatological monad, all these religious or theological constructs about history are actually intuitions about language undergoing this transformation. Now several things about this transformation, it's obviously not something which the culture is doing as a decision. It isn't like home computers and cable TV. It isn't being brought on as an information utility. It's something which is being imposed from outside and I think it is, I'm sure most of you are familiar with the Gaia hypothesis of homeostatic regulation of the environment of the earth through the interaction of all life acting as a single organism. Well it obviously regulates trigger species such as we are, are part of this homeostatic method of regulation and I think the gradual evolution of language is actually the gradual lifting of the veil that is imposed between ourselves and meaning by the planetary ecology. In other words, the forward thrust of history is actually regulated by the ecology and it is regulated through control of the evolution of language because what you cannot think you cannot do and where you cannot imagine you cannot steer your culture and go. So I'm proposing on one level that hallucinogens be thought of as human macro almost social pheromones that regulate the rate at which language develops and therefore regulate the evolution of human culture generally. Now one final thought about all this. It seems clear to me and I've mentioned it in the other lectures that the evolution that another aspect of what psychedelics are doing and an aspect of what's happening to the culture generally is its transformation into a space-faring species and that the momentum for this has been building for millennia. It is not something that was decided in the 1950s. It is in fact what we're all about. I looked at a book recently by Terry Wilson about Brian Gysin called Here to Go and he asked the question, what are we here for? And he answers himself, we're here to go. And I think there's great truth in that especially in the current historical moment where it's clear that man as a species and the planet as a unified ecosystem have become antagonistic to each other. And this is not unusual in nature. In fact it's a phenomenon that occurs between a mother and a fetus. When the fetus comes to term, when the birth is imminent, it must happen. Otherwise the survival of both parties is threatened even though the birth trauma for the mother and the child represents one of the major crises that they will face in their sojourn in existence. Nevertheless, it is inevitable and necessary and if it comes off correctly why it's to the good of everyone. Where psychedelics comes together with that is that it is going to require a transformation of human language and understanding to stop the momentum of the historical process, to halt nuclear proliferation, germ warfare, infantile 19th century politics, all these things. It cannot be accomplished through a frontal assault upon it by political means. And the I Ching says, you know, never, you never confront evil directly because when it is named it sharpens its weapons and it learns to defend itself. So what is called for is this sideways attack through hyperspace. God forbid, I think it was Tim Leary who said we should become ecological secret agents. Is that what I'm concluding? Maybe. Anyway, the transformation of language is, I think, the signal that this archaic, that this nostalgia for the archaic world is coming to a head and that this is its culmination. This is the peculiar thing that we all sense is coming, that we can't quite imagine, that is synthetic yet natural, that is obvious yet hidden. And the interesting thing about it is that it emerges from an inner personal frontier. In other words, you're not going to hear this on the evening news. The president is not going to explain it to you. The secretary general of the UN isn't going to explain it to you. You are only going to advance into understanding this phenomena to the degree that you apply yourself to your being, to attention to being, to reflection on reflection, to attention on attention. And then it will become clear. And because it is a gradient of evolution, it doesn't come with the force of a revelation. It is something which is drawn out. Almost in the same way that we move forward into time, this thing is drawn out. In fact, you could almost say that the act of history or the fact of history is a macro arises out of the micro physical fact of millions of people evolving their language. That is what causes the moving wave front of historical becoming. So transformation of language through psychedelic drugs is a central factor of the evolution of the social matrix of the rest of the century. My brother is working on the theory, putting together the argument for the idea that actually human history has always been mediated by man's interaction with hallucinogenic drugs. And that this is the pheromonal regulator that links us to the rest of the ecology. And it's simply accidents of botany and alkaloid distribution and historiography that allowed a culture to arise in Europe, which was an area confined geographically and poor in psychedelic plants so that the mystery was confined to places like elusives and peripheral cults like possibly the mushroom berserkers or Ammonita using cults in the Arctic regions. And because of those accidents of botany and geography, a culture was able to get loose from the tight constraints that the unconscious imposes. But nevertheless, that culture then was the Promethean culture, the Faustian culture, which claimed the energies which will then send the Mayan tribes to the stars. If it had not been for this historical episode, we would essentially be at the Amazonian level of culture, which is suspended in the hallucinogenic dream, but oblivious to the historical forces which are bearing down on that. And tribalism is a social form which can exist at any level of technology. It's a complete illusion to associate it with low levels of technology. It is probably, in fact, a form of social organization second only to the family and its ability to endure. The problem with determinism is it says everything can't happen any way except the way that it's happening. Now, the problem with that is that it makes the concept of thinking irrelevant because you're thinking what you're thinking because you couldn't think anything else. So the notion of truth or judgment or all of that is completely shot down. So a totally determined universe is the most ultimately uninteresting that there can be. Nevertheless, the universe clearly is, to some degree, highly determined. We know to within nanoseconds the time of the sunrise tomorrow, and unless there's a serious instability, it will be on time. So there is a degree of predictability. My rap is sort of divided into two parts, and I'm very shy about the second half. The first half is easy for me. It's that psychedelics are wonderful. You should take them. This is the way to save the world, so forth and so on. The second part of the rap is, here's what I've learned from psychedelics, and then not some general kind of feel-good thing, but something that requires a blackboard and tensor equations of the third degree and so forth and so on, and I'm very shy about putting that out. My personal approach to psychedelics before I realized that you could save the world with them, when I just thought that this was some kind of thing, self-exploration, my notion was what it's good for is ideas. It's for generating ideas, and I don't really like the word generating, because you don't generate them. You hunt them. You get in your little boat, and you paddle out onto the dark water, and then you put your feet up, and you wait, and you set your nets, and you wait, and sometimes you pull up your nets, and something the size of a freight train has gone through them, and you just row for shore, shit in white, and sometimes minnows, trivia, why does our little finger just fit our nostril, the mysteries of the animal body, or all kinds of stuff, but occasionally, and it's worth fishing a lifetime, occasionally something will come into the nets that is not so small as to be trivial and not so large as to be incomprehensible, and this thing can be wrestled with for hours and eventually brought home to show the startled folks back on shore, and this showing the startled folks back on shore makes history. All these ideas come out of interaction with these plants. The number of ideas, which when you pick up a straight encyclopedia should be traced back to herders, and people who kept animals, people say, you know, astrology, astronomy, it was invented by people watching their flocks, the calendar, time was invented by people watching their flocks, all of a sudden, well, they weren't only watching their flocks, they were also watching the cow pies of their flocks for mushrooms, and, you know, music, all of these Pythagorean insights into order, I think, come out of this herding, domesticated animal husbandry, we call it husbandry, because it's a model of caring for nature, and these ideas are the inspiration and the purpose, to my mind, I mean, the social purpose, because I can, you know, get rid of my stuff and feel better about how I was abused in childhood and this and that and the other thing, with psychedelics, but that's all personal growth stuff, but an idea, you know, can be shared, you can take it and you can lay it at somebody's feet, and where do they come from, you know, when you ask the question, where do the ideas come from, this is Platonic philosophy 101, ladies and gentlemen, this is why the Greeks gave up fishing, to discuss this problem, where do...