below the level of an overt mind-boggling psychedelic experience psilocybin causes what's called CNS arousal, central nervous system stimulation. Horniness is another way of putting this because what CNS arousal is is a kind of restlessness, a kind of where's the action mentality, a kind of desire to go out and mix it up a little and the ability to carry through on that in a fairly convincing style to your partner. In the in the dry parlance of primatology we call this increased frequency of copulation and increased frequency of copulation means increased frequency of impregnation. I don't see how you could have that without the first. I mean oven basters aside. So increased frequency of impregnation means more offspring are being born to the population which is accepting the psilocybin into its diet and more offspring is the key to evolutionary success and to running your evolutionary competitors right off the road into the ditch. That's the key thing. He who out reproduces his competitors or she of course who out reproduces competitors is going to find itself the dominant species in a given environment. So there's a two-step process where the first step reinforces the second step. We have more successful hunting, more frequent sexual activity, more food for the offspring and the offspring are being raised by parents who have already accepted the mushroom as an item of diet and will pass that habit on to their children. So I'm sure as you can see it's beginning to push in a certain direction. Well so fine mushroom eating increases the success of proto-hominids but how does it account for the emergence of the higher functions of the human cerebral cortex? Language, dance, art, poetry, song, symbolic activity of all sorts. What's going on there? Well it is simply that if we now advance from the slight dose, we've advanced now to the moderate dose, if we now go on and imagine that people enjoyed this arousal, this social ambiance that attended upon including this item in the diet, there surely would have been reckless souls among them who would have followed Dr. Leary's advice that when in doubt double the dose, right? Well when you double the dose profound things happen which are not easily calculated from the previous state of mind which was just simply a state of sleeplessness and restlessness. Hallucination and stimulation of the area of the brain that is called Broca's area and that we now associate with the formation of language. Spontaneous glossolalia is a phenomenon of high dose psilocybin use. Glossolalia is linguistic activity that seems to be not willed by the ego but that is just simply an upwelling from the dynamics and architecture of the organism and in our society we're familiar with it as a phenomenon that has been appropriated by Pentecostal Christianity as a proof of the indwelling of the spirit but in fact this phenomenon occurs in most societies throughout the world and most societies associated with an indwelling of spirit whether they be Christian, Muslim, animist or what-have-you this spontaneous vocalizing of language like activity is seen to be a sign of special characteristics what anthropologists call election, shamanism in other words, magic, the ability to cast spells, the ability to weave story. It's all tied into language and it's just my personal opinion but I would bet you I don't know how we'd ever settle the bet but I would bet you that language existed a long time before meaning because it is intrinsically some kind of neurological release of the organism and there can be syntax in the absence of language. As an example what this is is instant art you see abstract art because the human organism is brilliantly wired for small mouth noises this is something that we can do for hours with very little. I'm the living proof of it. I want to beat you to the punch before someone points this out. Small mouth noises are special province and with it we weave meaning, we convey emotion, we convey anger and eventually we recreate the entire world of our imaginations. I mean this is what culture is, is a kind of coaxing into reality of the structures of the human imagination through the medium of language and it begins as poetry and it ends as you know structural engineering on the scale of the Golden Gate Bridge or something like that. Language. Language then sets us apart and so it seems to me there is a direct linear descent through the use of this one particular psychedelic. It has to have been a grassland plant. It cannot require any preparation even boiling or something like that because we're talking about a level of human culture that is more naive than these processes that were added late. So it has to be commonly met with plant, a plant of the grasslands, a plant requiring no preparation other than that you eat it and then it has to put in place a series of self-reinforcing positive feedback loops that lead to self-reflection. I think this is it folks. I think this is where humanness came from and when you realize that the straight people who've had the field all to themselves since Darwin, their best idea is that it was the coordination of the throwing arm, that it's the baseball pitcher who is the highest exemplar of what it is to be a human being because as soft-bodied weak primates it was very important to us to keep our distance from these large animals as we stoned them to death. You know you didn't want to get within the sweep of tusk or claw as you were attacking these things. Well you know I'm as fond of the lump-cheeked hayseed on the mound as anybody else but I don't see him as the exemplar of humanity's march toward the unspeakable mystery of being. Not when you not when you think about the truly titanic dimensions that are easily accessible to any one of us on psilocybin and we have you know ten thousand years of human history, philosophy, art, science, and literature behind us and when we come up against five dried grams in silent darkness it's as awesome, as appalling, as mind-boggling, and as impossible to process as it must have been for those folks twenty-five, thirty-five, fifty-five thousand years ago. It is a true mystery. None of our science, none of our language has given us a leg up on understanding that phenomenon. So that was the vector that called us forward. That was the great attractor that this humble monkey heard the call and set off across the plains of geological time seeking and finding this tremendous mystery and I believe that this story has tremendous implications for our own lives because we are highly dysfunctional as a society. Violence, sexism, racism, classism, linear thinking, reductionism, denial of the spirit, all this messes with our heads and our happiness and I I think that it is not necessarily so but that we it was a narrow window that opened for us because I am not suggesting that monkeys make fine company back as you look through the geological record. The fact of the matter is male dominance hierarchies occur in primates right back to the squirrel monkey type. The primate style is a style of male dominance but sometime let's say a hundred thousand years ago to let's say twelve or ten thousand years ago there was a chemical fix. There was a an intervention in the ordinary hierarchy forming tendency of these evolving primates and we actually created not a matriarchy, not a shifting of one master for another but a partnership society. We were actually able by forming a kind of quasi symbiotic relationship to these mushrooms and it was a very interesting incipient symbiosis you see. It was a symbiosis event of of proto hominids, cattle, grasslands and mushrooms. It was a three species at least three species symbiosis. We were able to create a partnership style of existence which is the genesis point of our myths of paradise. This is why we have a nostalgia for paradise, a feeling that we fell into history. That there was once a golden age of balance and gender you know reasonable gender dynamics and community and religion that was not simply moral prescriptions that cause neurosis but an actual relationship to the living spirit of the planet and this was achieved through psilocybin and through the lifestyle that it reinforced because recalling my little three-step process the psychedelic aspect and the sexual arousal aspect were simply two ends of the same experience. The style of these early nomadic pastoralists into cattle was orgiastic meaning everybody got together at the new and full moon and flopped in a heap and these were these were groups of 70 or 80 people, small human groups. Now what this was doing this tendency toward group sexual activity and orgy promoted by the psilocybin in the diet what it was doing was it was interfering with the tendency to stress male lines of paternity because you can't know in a society that is institutionalized orgiastic sexuality men cannot know who their children are. Women know who their children are because they see the children come out of their bodies and there's a bonding but for men the children are community property and this I think