exterior manifestations, freak rainbows and, in my case, an encounter with a UFO. And this UFO encounter had a very curious quality to it. Not that they don't always, I suppose. But this was even more curious than the pedestrian UFO encounter. What happened was, it was on the 13th day of the reversal. And I had had this intimation, there was something going on about the southwest. I wasn't clear quite what it was. And the two women on the expedition were, that afternoon, washing our clothes down by the Choro, by the lake. And I looked across the lake and I saw in the sky, not a rainbow, but just a spot in the sky that was a spectrogrammatic diffraction. You know, a little patch of rainbow. And I asked the women if they saw it and they said they didn't. And then it intensified. And by this time I was plenty in the doghouse as well. I mean, this put a great deal of strain on our small party, as you can imagine. And this spectrogrammatic iridule intensified. And then I said to them, now do you see it? And they looked and they said, oh yeah, it's, you know, big deal, not much. But I knew, I knew, and knowing means the voice was speaking to me. All kinds of weird things went on. I mean, I discovered that the closer I was to water, the easier it was for me to rhyme. Which I've never, and then years later I encountered a Celtic saying, poetry is made at the edge of running water. And the thing would give me these aphorisms. Like one time it said, the clone's load is a stoned mode. And, you know, and I was not sleeping. I was now 11 days without sleep. So that night I decided to sit by the choro. And just because I stayed up all night and I would walk in the fields. And the thing would draw the, would connect up the constellations for me and show me where they were in the sky. There was also embedded in all this thing the intimation of this thing called the teacher. Which was a giant insect-like thing that was always like right over here. And there was the sense of something watching us from the sky. Something moving us very, very gently but persistently toward this very weird breakthrough. So I sat there all night long on the laundry stone at the choro. And about dawn, around dawn, I looked out across the lake and to the jungle. And about a mile away over the jungle there was a low bank of clouds. And as I watched these clouds, I noticed that they seemed to be rolling in place. Like scrolling, like the roller on a typewriter or something. And as I watched, they divided into four perfectly shaped, lens-shaped cloudlets. And as I watched the four, they coalesced into two. And then as I kept watching, the two coalesced into one. And at that moment I heard the wee, wee, wee sound that flying saucers make in Hollywood B-movies, you know. And I looked back over my shoulder thinking of the people in the hut behind me about 70 feet up the bank. Thinking, I have to get a witness. I was driven nuts by this idea of the witness. Because everybody's interpretation was that we had just gone bonkers, completely bonkers. So I thought, I have to get the witness. And I assessed the possibility and looked back across the lake and the thing was coming toward me. It was coming straight for me. And I just, I felt, even for me, this was some kind of a moment of truth. Where then I realized, my God, it's actually real. We are going to get the lens. We are going to break through to the machinery of the millennium. And I felt my knees go out on me. And I just like sat back down. And the thing, I could see it getting closer and closer and clearer and clearer. And then it passed over above me. And in the last moment, before it was lost by the hill of the bluff of the Choro. I could see it was turning slowly. It had blue and orange lights. I could see the rivets on the underside. I could see the three half spheres on the underside. And having spent at one point, having been interested in UFOs. I immediately recognized it as the end cap of a 1937 Hoover vacuum cleaner. The very Hoover vacuum cleaner that the charlatan George Adamski. Had suspended by a fish line in his garage in Southern California in 1948. And photographed and released as a picture of a UFO. Which was then totally debunked. So here I am seeing a 50 foot version of a Hoover vacuum cleaner end cap slicing across the sky. And psychologists have a term, cognitive dissonance. This is when things get so out of control that you don't know shit from Shinola. Is what cognitive dissonance is. So it was more shocking to me than an extraterrestrial spacecraft would have been. Because it was showing me that what I was looking at couldn't possibly be a flying saucer. It was rather something so preposterous and absurd that if I were to tell this to anyone. For sure they would drop nets over me. And so that was the UFO. And then the next morning we actually flew out of La Charrera. Dennis normalized about four days later to his present normal state. I on the other hand have never come down. And time wave zero which I can't explain it if you don't know what it is. But it is the actual fruit of this experience. And time wave zero is the thing promised. It's a map of all space and time. And it predicts the location of the lens. December 22, 2012. And it's as though what he thought would take a moment at La Charrera. At dawn on the morning of the 4th of March 1971. Is actually stretched out over what 45 years. But in a sense we're locked inside that moment. I mean something very, very, very extraordinary and peculiar went on. One of the things that happened was I was just absolutely ecstatic this whole time. I mean I was abiding in the Buddha realm. I was complete and I assumed we would never leave La Charrera. I couldn't imagine why we would. And I remember well here's an example of the kind of stuff that would go on. One afternoon I walked out of the little sandy place where the hut was. Where Dennis was being confined. And after a while he was taken out of my quote unquote care. By more sober members of the expedition. And I was just basically abandoned in the woods. Because I refused to come in to the mission. And I just lived in the woods. And this one incident I was there. And I would go out and I would raise my hands. And the butterflies I could call them in. I could call in hundreds of butterflies. And so I would be there like this. And the butterflies would come. And they would settle on my arms and my shoulders in front of me. And apparently I had a lot of guilt about what I'd been doing in Indonesia. The previous two years which was slaughtering butterflies. And so like tears of joy and ecstasy. I just would completely emotionally come apart. Weep, weep, weep. And then stop weeping. And think about how I have to have a witness. I have to have a witness. So then I would go and get my major skeptic. Who was this colleague of mine. A woman from Berkeley. Who you know thought as any reasonable person would. That I was completely bananas. So I would without telling her what would happen. I led her out into the forest. And then I stood there with upraised arms. Waiting for the butterflies. And of course no butterflies would come near me. And it was just like said my God you have lost it. You are mad. What are we going to do? And this was going on hundreds of miles in the jungle. I mean there was no way out. We were just we had been led into this place. And then this thing had been laid on us. At another incident similar deal. Was we had this little pot. This little enameled pot. Which we cooked our avena in. Our oatmeal every morning. And the biggest bummer in the camp chores. Was cleaning the burnt avena out of the bottom of the pot. And there was this spring a few hundred yards. From where all this was going on. Where we washed our dishes. And you would go down to the spring. And pick up sand out of the bottom of the spring. And then by furiously scrubbing. You could get the avena out of the pot. The burnt avena. So one day it was my turn to do this. And I went down by myself. And I put the pot in water. And I was hearing the voice all the time. And it would say things to me like. If it isn't simple. You haven't thought about it enough. And really weird things. Like when I would sit and talk. As I'm talking now. My hands would unconsciously build. Lay fires. It was just like. What was happening was that. Consciousness or gnosis or something. Was coming out of my pores practically. Everything taught. That's what I said. I said everything teaches. You want to understand chemistry. Look in a mud puddle on the trail. Just sit down and look in it. All you need to know is here. You want to understand botany. Just hold a plant in your hand. And I was you know. And I pestered people all the time. People said just back it off man. So I took the avena pot down to the spring. And the thing said. If it isn't simple. You haven't thought about it enough. So what I did is. I put about a half inch of water. In the bottom of the pot. And then I picked up a handful of sand. And like putting salt on your eggs. I sifted it down. And then I took the pot. And I went like this. And then I poured it out. And all the black crud. And everything just poured out. And was swept away. And again I wept. I did a lot of weeping. I was you know. I don't know. And so then the next morning. It was my turn to cook breakfast. And so I deliberately burned the avena. And then after breakfast. I said to Sal. To my most fierce critic present. I said let's wash the pot together. So we went down to the spring. And she was getting ready to do the. And I said wait a minute. Let me show you something. And I put the. And I did the thing. And I you know just like this. And she said my God. My God. What's the matter with you. So actually it took ten years. Before she and I returned to speaking terms. She is now a psychoanalyst. Not a psychotherapist. Not your hands on touchy feely power animal. But you know the real thing. The medical degree. The whole bit. She's now a psychoanalyst in Berkeley. And we still actually avoid. We've never had the conversation I want to have. Because I know she thinks I'm OK.