my everything else, it just went into a tizzy. And then, you know, and so that was, I was sort of like following the track. Many people were having these kinds of experiences at just that time. But then, in January, in February of 1967, I sort of found my way at the front of the parade when one rainy evening in Berkeley, this friend of mine, who I'm still extremely tight with, and this guy always was first in everything. And, you know, he made it his business to burn through and abandon things before you'd ever heard of them. And he arrived at my house this rainy February night, and he said, I have something I want you to try. And I said, what is it? And he said, it's a new psychedelic. And I said, how long does it last? And he said, three minutes. And I said, no problem, you know, we're acid heads, we can handle three minutes of anything. And he sat down and smoked my first DMT. And, you know, it's never been the same since. I mean, it worked a hundred percent. Yes, this was the famous 55-gallon drum that was boosted off a Army conveyance vehicle when it was moved from SRI to some proving ground in the Southwest. The U.S. Army was trying to develop an aerosol artillery shell that would land in a Vietnamese village, drive everyone nuts, and you could send your people in and take over in all this gaseous hallucinogenic confusion. And DMT and even then more debilitating psychedelics were being looked at in the service of this. And it's a famous story in the underground that there was this one 55-gallon drum of pure crystalline material that somebody just made sure fell into a ditch in Menlo Park somewhere and somebody else came along five minutes later and picked it up. And rumor persists that that 55-gallon drum is not empty yet. Apocryphal stories abound of burial sites near Hudson's Bay, in the deserts of the Namib, other places it's been moved around. Even the Dome of the Rock was indicated at one time. So I don't suggest you go looking for it under the Dome of the Rock. Anyway, DMT really, we had to then do our own research. We weren't getting information from the culture about DMT. It was talking about LSD and this and that. And the first thing you find out when you look into what DMT is, and at that time it was true, was that it occurs in a lot of plants. Later Wade Davis, on and on, were just, this amazing ethnographic and chemical data was like being downloaded out of the Amazon and declassified. And it just was revealing the entire picture of a shamanic, hallucinogenic religion. And having smoked DMT, we were inside from the start. We knew that this was just the most important thing to ever come down the pike. And so quickly for myself and my friends, the emphasis shifted toward, how can we extend this experience? Because if you've smoked DMT and you're like me, it's very hard to grab onto. While it's happening, it's the most intense experience you've ever had. But it's so strange. And there may even be a physiological tendency for it not to transcript into short-term memory. Because when you come down from a DMT trip, it's like awakening from a dream. You just, you have this kind of crazy sense that something has just been happening and it was all around you and now it's gone. So we wanted to understand, how can you get in there for longer? And we tried simple things like taking it at the top of LSD trips. This is a hell of a launch, but it doesn't particularly prolong it. It maybe doubles the time from three minutes to six. But we were saying, if you could get in there for an hour, you could learn something. You could bring something back. That was always the goal, to bring something back, an idea, an artifact, an equation, something. All further research indicated then, and I think probably the key source here is that book that William Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg did in the late 60s called The Yahé Letters, where I can't remember what the order of it is. I think Ginsberg goes down looking for it, writes letters back to Burroughs. Burroughs then goes down a year later looking for it, writes letters back to Ginsberg. Ginsberg comes off as somewhat of a nervous nelly in that book. He didn't really care for it. It was a bit much for him. Burroughs, of course, ever the trooper, was completely gung-ho. This brought up the issue of Yahé, which is what Ayahuasca is called north of the Putumayo River as a generalization. Well then, in the meantime, other things were happening for me. I went to Israel. I tried to emigrate to the Seychelles Islands. I spent time in India. I was a smuggler, an art dealer. Then I got in trouble for the smuggling, so I had to hide out from that. So I went to Indonesia to be a butterfly collector. And that, for the first time, plunged me on a day-to-day basis for months into the heart of true tropical nature, which I had never seen before. When I was born in Colorado, raised in California, I had never been to the equatorial tropics. Yeah. Well, when I first went to Berkeley, I accepted entry into an experimental college called the Tussman Experimental Program. I went two years to Berkeley, 65, 67, no, 65, 67, 67, 68, and then I left. And then when I returned years later in 72, I majored in systems theory and ecology and botany, and I actually had a self-directed major in shamanism. I had written The Invisible Landscape with my brother at that time, and I just sort of presented that as a series. Whenever they wanted me to write a paper, I'd submit a chapter from the book I'd already written. Yeah, absolutely. Before that, I had, in my life, in the course of my life, I had had sort of a love affair between the natural sciences and the sciences, I mean, the natural sciences and the humanities. Like when I was a little kid, when I was seven, I was a rock collector, a fossil collector, a butterfly collector. Then around age 10, I read, I think, Aldous Huxley or maybe a Julian Huxley essay that sneered at all that and introduced this concept of the humanities. I didn't even know what they were, and I said, oh, humanities, literature, philosophy, and art. So then I became, I just charged into that. The reason I even encountered the doors of perception was because I was reading all of Aldous Huxley's novels, you know, this 13-year-old kid reading Chrome, Yellow, Antique, After Many a Summer Dies the Swan, these extremely arch novels of English social life in the 20s. And I became obsessed with modern art in this small, narrow-minded town where I lived. It was a good way to get in everybody's face, was to go around saying, you know, Jackson Pollock is a genius. You may not think so, but you're an idiot. And you know, there was a period in my life where I formed my taste by saying I liked what I didn't like. And inevitably, these were good choices, because I was raised in an ecology that valued Norman Rockwell, Rock of Ages, Silent Night, Rosemary Clooney. And I said, no, no, Jackson Pollock, Samuel Beckett, Jean Genet, Karl Jaspers, Martin Heidegger. I didn't know what these things meant. I just knew they were mantras that kept straight people away. So anyway, when I went to Indonesia, I saw this tropical nature, but absent psychedelics. There were none. There was fine Sumatran cannabis, which I kept prodigious amounts with me at all times. But there were no real psychedelics. But the butterflies, and I really was sort of retracing the steps of Alfred Wallace, who was the person who discovered evolution. And I sort of felt, although I'm not given to past life-ism or any of that, I felt a very strong connection to Wallace. And I had his journals, which were 120 years old at that time. And I went to the places he went to, and I collected the butterflies he collected, and I observed the plants he observed. And I thought about complexity and diversity and all these issues. And I also processed my experiences in India, which had not been happy. I mean, I found India to be a spiritual desert, full of con artists and weasels of every variety. And I was better prepared than most. I mean, I had studied Adyavadita Vedanta, and I was serious. I at one point thought I would be a Tibetan scholar until I actually studied with lamas and learned how hellishly complex the Tibetan language actually is. And one of the things that has shaped my intellectual life is I have enormous facility with English. I can speak no other language with any facility whatsoever. I have failed German, Hebrew, Spanish, Tibetan, Portuguese, Italian, and there must be a few others that I just despair of. So that made it clear to me, well, a life of scholarship, you can never be a Tibetan scholar. You can never be a number of things because you have this funny blockage. And the conclusion from looking at Indonesian nature and looking at Asian spirituality as experienced up front was I should go to the Amazon. And in a way, we had always known this. It's not like we weren't as dumb as I'm making it sound. It was just a matter of working through all this stuff and getting to it. And finally, in 1971, my brother and myself and several other people, well prepared, well prepared by even the standards of today. I meet people today who are going down there to look for drugs and enlightenment who haven't done the homework that I was able to do in 1971. But and then went to Colombia and we were pursuing a very rare hallucinogen. It's called Ufkuje. It's known only to three very small tribes down there, the Witoto, the Muinani, and the Bora. And it's a DMT drug that is taken orally. And the reports in the Boston Museum Botanical Leaflets said they use it to see little people. And this was, I don't think I mentioned, part of why we were so interested.