And when you asked, when Evan Spence asked these people what's going on, they said, these are the dead. When you die, you stay around, but you're in an invisible realm, and it's an ecology of souls, my phrase, not his, an ecology of souls. But this is what is revealed on DMT, is entities that are so strange that they could easily pass for extraterrestrials. What's puzzling about them is their tremendous humor and affection and intense involvement in us as human beings. Why are they there? What do they want? And they're not, if they are ancestors, they're not my ancestors. In other words, when I broke in there, I didn't find my mother and my grandparents, it wasn't like that, there was no personal, it isn't like that. But there is this sense of affection, interest, caring. Well, we have the doctrine of purgatory in Western theology, in the Catholic Church. I had always assumed, thinking about it, that purgatory must have been a doctrine that the Church Fathers, Irenaeus and Eusebius and that crowd, had written into the gospel message for their own purposes. I discovered, to my amazement, that that isn't what happened at all, that St. Patrick is the person responsible for purgatory, because he wrote purgatory into Christian doctrine in order to convert the Celtic peasantry of Ireland to the idea that fairyland and the Christian afterlife were the same place. And it was thought such a good idea in Rome that the doctrine became canon law generally for the Church. So purgatory is a spruced up, cleaned up version of Irish fairyland to make it a little more palatable. Well, you see, this is where our anxieties come in, and it's hard to push it much further than this. An extraterrestrial contact, I think we could probably ride that through, and it would be amazing, but it would be tolerable. But if what's happening is that at the end of history are waiting the dead, and that our notion of reality is so skewed that we don't even know the most basic facts about the cycles of life and death and rebirth, then it's going to be quite astonishing for us, I think, to come to terms with this. And yet, this is what shamans live with, this is what they tell you. They say, you know, a shaman is a person who can pass daily through the gates of death and return. We see into the other realm. We see into hyperspace. As inheritors of the rational tradition, this is pretty hard for us to swallow, because I think, maybe it's not true anymore, but in my personal process of rejecting Catholicism, I did manage to convince myself that when you're dead, it's over with. And it's been very hard for me to fight my way back to the notion that that might be just 100% malarkey, and nothing more than a conservative first try. And now I think much more in terms of dimensionality, and that I don't know what a form is, but the process of the fertilization of an egg, of any organism, it doesn't have to be a human being, the life of that organism, and then its death and dissolution, is the process of a form descending from hyperspace, clothing itself in matter, and then withdrawing from matter, returning to hyperspace. And this concept of hyperspace is very, very necessary to understanding this stuff. Because if you look at what shamans do that is so confounding, they find lost objects, they cure disease, they rescue lost souls, they discern secret acts, infidelities, thefts, poisonings, stuff like that. All of these magical things that they do are completely non-mysterious if we grant the idea of a higher spatial dimension. If there's a higher spatial dimension, then this section is not zipped, there's a part of it which is completely open to the world, this room is not closed, there's one direction in which it's absolutely open to the air. In other words, in hyperspace, nothing is hidden. What I'll do today is I assume most of you are not familiar with my work, but I also assume you're intelligent, so I'm not going to give an introductory talk, I'll just cut to the chase. And if you don't understand what's said, at least you have the satisfaction of knowing nobody talked down to you, right? Okay. It's very hard to know where exactly to slice into this pie. I mean, I am an advocate of the psychedelic experience for personal growth work, for shamanic exploration, as an enzyme for the imagination, as a force that forces us to grow up and to clean up. However, what I want to talk to you today about, because this is a pagan community, and because I think the argument, if it's not understood here, won't be understood anywhere, is I want to talk about the social impact of psychedelic plants on human consciousness, both in the present and in the remote past. Because my approach to psychedelics is not to see it as a religious freedom issue or a personal self-exploration issue. That's all there. But I believe that we cannot really understand what it is to be a human being and how we came to be human beings without factoring into our explanations this most taboo of all subjects for the Western dominator mind, the subject of boundary-dissolving, consciousness-expanding plants. Every point of view has a cosmology, a myth of its meaning. As quickly as I can, I want to tell you the myth that, to my mind, unites paganism, psilocybin, sexual freedom, the peril to the earth, and the hope for the future all into one very nice, neat package. It requires a kind of an anthropology lesson. First of all, our fellow voyagers along the way, the scientists, have created, as you all know, the theory of evolution, which has been the great crowning achievement of biology over the past hundred years. First, the Darwinian understanding of natural selection and random mutation, then Mendelian genetics, the discovery of the particulate nature of the gene, then, still later, molecular genetics, the elucidation of DNA, so forth and so on. The theory of evolution has been very successful in explaining the state of nature on this planet, with one tremendously embarrassing exception, which is ourselves. Biological evolution cannot account for a phenomenon like minded human beings involved in the building and maintenance of global, electronically sustained societies. How do we do it? Well, we do it because we have a vastly superior cerebral architecture to any other organism in nature. And the interesting thing about that architecture is that it sprang into being in the blink of an eye, geologically speaking. The human brain size doubled in less than two million years. This is the most dramatic expansion in the size of a major organ of a higher animal in the entire fossil record. It would be, under any circumstances, an embarrassment to the theory of evolution. But notice that the theory of evolution was generated by the very organ we're discussing. So it is doubly embarrassing. Now obviously, we are the inheritors of extraordinary circumstances. Higher animals have existed on this planet for 200 million years, in all kinds of forms. Reptilian life, amphibian life, avian life, mammalian life, and never, so far as the geological history of the planet can tell us, never did machine building, language using, technology producing societies arise. Some extraordinary interaction in our early history is responsible for our circumstance as language using, technology producing creatures. Okay, end of introduction. Here's the scenario, and I hope it has special resonance for this community. All animal species tend to evolve into an ecological niche and stabilize themselves there. Ants and termites have been at equilibrium for hundreds of millions of years. Our remote ancestors also were on a direct course toward that kind of dynamic equilibrium. We were evolving toward being fruit-eating, canopy-living, insectivorous primates, with an advanced repertoire of PAX signals, and this was apparently to be our evolutionary destiny. Were it not for the fact that sometime in the last 5 million years or so, the African continent, which was the site of our environmental proto-system, began to dry up, and the forests that had always been our arboreal home began to shrink. And what this spelled for our remote proto-hominid ancestors was nutritional pressure. There wasn't enough food. Our remote ancestors began descending from the canopy and exploring the new environment that the aridity was bringing into existence, a grassland environment, an environment of limited numbers of plant and animal species relative to the climaxed tropical rainforests that were in retreat. Now, the reason animals specialize their food supply is to avoid contact with mutagens in the environment. If you begin experimenting with foods and begin eating everything, you will produce more children with mutations. Some of these mutations will be positive, most will be lethal. When our remote ancestors came under nutritional pressure, they began expanding their diet. This was the moment when we became partially carnivorous, when we became omnivores. And had I more time, I would lay out many examples of specific plants, such as plants that contain birth control, alkaloids, and things like that, specific plants that would have impacted early human emergence. But I want to concentrate here on one plant, and that is the psilocybin-containing mushrooms that grow in the dung of cattle. Because I think that if we're looking for a missing link, it isn't a transitional skeleton, it isn't meddling by extraterrestrials, at least not of the overt thousand-ton beryllium ship variety. It has to do with the fact that wheat begins like this. In that foraging phase, where we were testing all kinds of plants on the grassland, small amounts of psilocybin mushrooms would have naturally been eaten in the process of eating corms and things like that. I personally have seen baboons in Kenya investigating cow paddies on the savannah, because they