The letter dated July 8th to Sherry states that she would get $1,466. That number is if she was only charged once or for one month of Medicare Part B. So that's her benefit minus one, her benefit on her own record. It was her benefit minus the $185 equals $1,466. Now if we do that second subtraction of $185 and that subtraction of $83.80, that's where we get the $1,197. So my suggestion to you is on that letter dated July 8th, print it out and highlight that $1,466 number. Just as a reference. And then I would also print out or make a copy of the letter dated May 19th to Sherry as well, showing that her benefit amount under you is $1,574. And that should have been May 19th? May 19th is the date of that letter, that is correct. Okay. Okay. Now, what I want you to do is on the appeal itself, if you can, I know for me I'm a visual person, so I like to see the numbers kind of broken out. But you would put C attached bank statement deposit of $1,197.20. Yeah. Reference the letter dated that first date I gave to you where it said $1,466. July 8th. It should have been this amount. Yep. It should have been this amount. However, Medicare premiums were reduced twice for $185. And the Medicare Part D premium was reduced or taken out for $83.80. And then please reference the bank statement showing a deposit of $1,574 on August 27th. This is Sherry's benefit only minus the voluntary taxes holding. No Medicare premiums were withheld. Now, if we were to pay all the $1,652 back, we would have to repay back the $400 and odd dollars. $185 plus $185 plus $83.80. The $453.80 for Medicare. So we are appealing the overpayment amount because $453.80 went towards Medicare. Right. Already. Yep. Got it. Correct. Does that all make sense? Well, yeah, as much as it can, given it's like. The way I'm explaining it, you kind of get my thought process. Yes. You make a great deal of sense. The system and its foibles make little sense. That's true. Thank you for that. And I am very grateful that you look at these things the way you do it. It evokes humor rather than frustration at my end, just so you know. I appreciate that. Yeah. So the very specific form that you need to complete. Yeah. Is S as in Sam. A second S as in Sam. Yep. A as in Apple. 561. 561. SSA 561. That is correct. And if you type that into Google, it is the first PDF that pops up. Got it. OK. Now, you have two options of submitting all this. One, you can submit it online and attach all the documents to that. Or you can get everything together in a packet and drop it off at our Dropbox. I'm going to be very frank with you. If you electronically submit it, that appeal is going to sit there for a very long time without anybody looking at it. If you do a physical copy, it gets sent to somebody immediately and it goes to our processing center pretty dang quick compared to the online appeal. Excellent. I will certainly do that. OK. Yeah. OK. Yeah. You do not need an appointment to drop off documents or mail them in or fax them in however way you want to. But if you do decide to physically drop them off at our office, we do. You can just walk in and put them in our Dropbox. They are date stamped every day. OK. Or, like I said, or you can mail them in or you can fax it in, whichever you prefer. But I would just highly recommend not doing the internet appeal. That computes for me. Very, very, very appreciative. OK. Thank you. I think I am set to go and do some stuff now. And again. Do you have any other questions for me? No, ma'am. Not at this time. And I am very grateful for your help. Not a problem. I appreciate your time. I wish you all the best of luck. Thank you. OK. Thank you. See you. Bye-bye. Bye.