see, I mean, when we reach South America, we will see ayahuasca functioning, not as an aphrodisiac or a thing to unify couples, but as a kind of telepathic pheromone that unifies whole small tribal groups together into a one-hearted, one-minded modality. And if we get into a discussion of the possible evolutionary impact of hallucinogens, we'll see that it always lies in the direction of these collectivized states of mind and dissolution of boundaries between people. Other than Tabernanthe and Boga, Africa's hallucinogens are trivial, and I won't mention them in the time we have. Cannabis is in Africa as well, but cannabis is worldwide now and probably has been for quite some time. Cannabis is a special case, chemically and culturally. We tend to think of cannabis as a recreational drug, but that's because in the 20th century we always smoked our cannabis. In the 18th and 19th century, cannabis was eaten and jellied forms of cannabis that were eaten, judging by the prose of people like Theodore Gautier, Baudelaire, Fitzhugh Ludlow, and people like that, it was as powerful as LSD, without doubt. I mean, these people were being swept into titanically alien dimensions. Well when we cross from Africa to India, India, interestingly, of course, as you all know, has a tremendous depth of at least concern with the spiritual dimension, if not realization of it, that's a tougher call. India would be a likely place to look for indigenous hallucinogenic plant cults simply because of the spiritual obsession that characterizes Indian thought. When we look at the historical foundations of Indian thought, we find that it all rests on a group of texts composed between 4,500 and 2,000 years ago called the Vedas, and the Vedas are nothing less but the world's longest continuing advertisement for a hallucinogenic plant. The problem is we don't know what this plant is. This is the mysterious Soma of the Rick Vedas, and Mandala Nine of the Rick Veda is entirely a hymn to Soma. Soma held Hinduism of the Vedic phase together. Later, it was repressed, and again, graduate students pay attention. One of the very interesting problems to be looked at by sociologists, social psychologists, and anthropologists is how, if a drug once discovered, or a plant once discovered, is so wonderful, how can these things ever be lost or forgotten? And yet, in several instances, we deal with literatures which sing the praises of some plant or drug, the identity of which we cannot figure out, or it becomes a big arm wrestle between various competing schools of scholarship. We do not, to this day, know what Soma was. Gordon Wasson, who some of you may know as the discoverer, the modern discoverer of the mushroom cults of Mexico, founder of the science of ethnomycology, believed to his dying breath that Soma was Amanita muscaria, the red-topped, white-speckled Amanita. This is a mushroom which has a major role in Tungusic and Arctic shamanism, but to say, as Wasson did, that this is the supreme entheogen of all time is not supported by the evidence, I think. Wasson's own efforts to become intoxicated on Amanita muscaria were not successful. My efforts have not been successful. Occasionally, you will hear anecdotal evidence. Someone will tell a story about eating Amanita muscaria that, obviously, they had a staggering breakthrough, a rupture of plane, as Mercilion, in his wonderful phrase. But it's extremely undependable. And when you look at the botany of Amanita muscaria, you discover that its chemical constituency is seasonally variant, genetically variant, geographically variant, and so forth. So often, I think, as we gain understanding of a given shamanism, we will see that it depended on an extremely deep, local knowledge. And if you take what a Yakut shaman says about Amanita muscaria and attempt to apply it in the national forests of New Mexico, you could end up with a tag on your toe. This kind of information doesn't travel well. There are old shamans and bold shamans, but there are no old, bold shamans. In looking at the Indian subcontinent for other hallucinogens that may have made a contribution, the obvious one, to my mind, is Stropharia cubensis, the mushroom which grows in the dung of cows and that the book my brother and I wrote was about. Other possibilities, some of you may know that there are a family, the Argyria family of morning glories, an Asian family of morning glories distributed from India to Micronesia, 13 species, all containing psychoactive ergot alkaloids, none with a history of human usage. Now this is another area which really fascinates me. Why do some plants become discovered by human beings and become the objects of cults which last millennia, and others are never discovered at all in societies absolutely obsessed with spiritual advancement? This Argyria nervosa is a perfect example because you take the seeds, the seeds are the active part, and you don't need much of this thing. You need four or five seeds, less than a tablespoon of plant material, which I would bet would make it per unit volume probably one of the most powerful hallucinogens in nature, and the hallucinations are absolutely stunning, and nobody has ever claimed this. It's free for the taking. This means you can cut a deal with an ally that doesn't belong to the Hindus, the Mayans, or somebody else. It's an unoccupied parking space in hyperspace, and it's very interesting. The discoveries are continuous. Just a year ago, some phytochemists in the Midwest discovered a plant. It's always been there. Nobody's ever taken it very seriously, treated it like a weed. Desmanthus illinoisensis, the Illinois bundle weed. This is suggestive that it's called bundle weed because a medicine bundle is, of course, a shaman's mojo bag. Bundle weed, 6% by dry weight, and then dimethyltryptamine, the largest concentration of DMT in any plant, and unclaimed by native peoples, unknown to the folk medicine of the North American Indians as far as we can tell. Well, so this is very interesting. Continuing our survey, since we're now somewhere on the Eurasian continent, we should mention Papaver somniforum, the opium poppy. With cannabis, this is probably the oldest human narcotic. No one's civilization was entirely based on opium, on the use of opium. In fact, when Michael Ventris translated the tablets, the Linear B tablets, they got these tallies, and they thought at first that the symbol for opium must be the symbol for wheat because the tallies were so huge of the stuff being moved and sold. And then when they sorted it out, they realized, no, for the last thousand years of its existence, the Minoan civilization drifted deeper and deeper into an opium narcosis that was its way, I think, of anesthetizing the pain of the death of this last outpost of the goddess religion because that's what it was. It was a cultural anachronism. While Asia Minor had gone over to god-king city-states and bronze-tipped spears, the people of Minoan Crete had kept the old, old archaic religion that came out of Africa. And then in the last gasp of that Minoan culture, those mysteries were handed on to the mainland of Greece and became the mysteries at Eleusis and other cult sites. It was said by the contemporary commentators of the Hellenistic world, the rites practiced in secret at Eleusis are practiced in public at Knossos. And this was the difference, the going underground of the old proto-Minoan mother religion. In modern times, we have a horror of opium. I mean, people are amazed that I even mention it in the same breath, but it doesn't hurt to remind ourselves that this virulently addictive substance, opium, was not even noticed to be addictive by anybody until 1627, when the English physician John Playfair, for the first time, commented that opium, once taken over a long period of time, then there would be a requirement that it be taken throughout life. We're right in the middle of a drug war at the moment, and it's interesting in that context to notice how the goals of drug wars can change. A hundred years ago, the British Navy was involved in what was called the Opium Wars in China. Very few people in the modern world have bothered to inform themselves to find out that the Opium Wars were about the right of the British government to deal opium. The Emperor of China did not want opium dealt in the ports of China, and the British government used canon to enforce their desire to sell opium in the ports of China. Why were the English trying to sell opium in the ports of China? Because the tea trade had collapsed through overproduction, and they were stuck with all these tea ships. They had created a whole global infrastructure for the sale of tea. When the market fell out on tea, they just turned to opium. They grew it in Goa, and they sold it in China. This was government policy less than 120 years ago. Okay, well, moving on then from Eurasia, and I'm sure I'm missing different things, but if I missed your favorite thing, bring it up in the question period, to the North American continent. The North American continent is, I almost said, similarly cursed like Europe, but that's just my prejudice. The North American continent is similarly poor in hallucinogens. There are no very interesting hallucinogens in North America, and North American Indians, North American culture, did not avail itself of this ecstatic plant-induced shamanism. It tended more to go for what's called ordeal shamanism, the sun dance thing where you hang yourself by your pectorals on hooks and stuff like that. I mean, there are other ways to attain these visions, but you see that absence of good hallucinogens in North America just reinforced that whole beer and woolen and uptight thing that came from Europe. The only major hallucinogen to have a role in Native American culture is, of course, peyote. And many people, without informing themselves, imagine that peyote is something which goes millennia into the past, and this is absolutely not true. Peyote use may well be less than 1,000 years old among Native Americans. When you go back into the old graves and the old burial sites in the Rio Grande Valley and south, you don't find peyote. What you find are the beans of Sephora secundifolia. You all probably know this plant, though you may not know its name. It's the plant that produces the very hard red and black bean that they can string.