to consider how many people didn't screw up for you to be sitting here tonight? You know, your ancestors, how many times there were opportunities for, you know, the saber-toothed tiger to strike back, or the hunt to fail, or the fever to sweep through, or the breast to go dry, or how many times were there opportunities that somebody had their eye on the ball, somebody paid attention? You are the inheritor of that process. There's a lot of talk in the new age, shmage, about the Tao of the ancestors, or Tao. Well, what does the Tao of the ancestors mean, except that you are the rearranged genetic component of your particular genetic stream, and your grandfather, your great-uncle, your grandmother, your great-aunt had ways of doing things, pitting peaches, planting beans, trimming flank steak. That's the Tao of the ancestors, that there's a way to do things, and that when you do things that way, that is the appropriate way for you to do it, and you can tell it's the appropriate way because there is very little energy loss. That's what the Tao is. It is appropriate activity, and from a psychedelic point of view, when we analyze the state of the world, what we see is not that there are many problems, sexism, racism, air pollution, monotheism, you name it. Not that there are many problems, but that there's really just one problem. The problem is, well, it can be defined many ways, but it's basically that we are inappropriate to ourselves. We are ill with ego. We have a narcissism that we cannot put down. Why? Why, given what we know about evolution and how it tries to smooth the way, why do we have a maladaptive relationship to reality? It doesn't make any sense. Well, here's why. It's nobody's fault, first of all. It has to do with the fact that the monkey is lagging behind the dynamics of the planet. Three million years ago, we were happy in the trees of Africa, in the canopy tropical equatorial forests of Africa, and in the way of planets, there are long cycles of drying and aridification, and a cycle like that began in Africa. And these arboreal primates, which had a social form and a complex kind of pack signaling, they were fruititarian and highly specialized at it, came under environmental pressure because of the retreat of these rainforests and their replacement by grasslands. When an animal comes under environmental pressure like that, it has to expand its diet or face extinction. It's just that simple. Now, to my mind, the great unexamined dynamic of evolutionary theory is diet, especially when we discuss human evolution. Why? It works like this. These monkeys are under pressure to expand their diet. Therefore, they must experiment with new kinds of food. When you experiment with new kinds of food, you are opening yourself up to exotic chemicals and mutagenic compounds present in plants, in your environment. Plants produce these things to ward off predation, discourage insects, attract pollinators, various reasons. But chemically speaking, the very compounds which are pheromones, sexual attractants, or poisons, are also in the chemical families that impact on human physiology. Alkaloids, steroids, hormones, neurotransmitters, and yes, psychedelic drugs, these things are all present in the diet. Well, the peculiar way in which we differ from the other primates, speaking generally, is that we have what are called neonatal characteristics. The persistence of infantile characteristics into adulthood is typical of human beings. This is why we have this extremely long period of semi-non-functionability up to age 16 or something. You're not fully all there, you know. This is incredible for an animal. This means we remain, we're almost like kangaroos. You know, when the kangaroo is born, it's an eighth of an inch long. It lives in the mother's pouch. It's actually out of the body in practically maggot form. And our hairlessness, and our large skull, and numerous characteristics are neonatal and were probably induced by mutations, alkaloids, and things like that in the diet. The one I want to particularly call to your attention is psilocybin, because here is the scenario of human emergence, and I defy anyone to top it. This is how it happened. Here's how the boar ate the cabbage, or something. Part of this pressure to expand diet had to do with abandoning vegetarianism and turning on to the fact that there were huge amounts of protein on the hoof in these grasslands in the form of ungulate mammals that were developing in the same environment. These pack hunting primates began to take an interest in these ungulate mammals and, you know, hunt them, club them, or predate on carrion kills by lions and that sort of thing. When they did this, of course, if you follow herds of ungulate animals, you see a lot of what the president calls deep doo-doo. And in this, you encounter mushrooms. The technical term is coprophilic, dung-loving, somewhat like the president. And these dung-loving, coprophilic mushrooms contain psilocybin. Well, if you've ever been in the veldt environment, or in any environment where these pasture mushrooms are happening, they're extremely noticeable in the environment. I mean, I have seen them in the Amazon the size of dinner plates. And you can see them, you know, from 300 yards away in a pasture. Also in Kenya, I've observed, personally, pack hunting baboons. And what they're into are grubs that locate under cow pies. And so their technique is to run around flipping over cow pies and picking up weird things and smelling and tasting them. This means that the mushroom is planted directly in the evolutionary path of these evolving primates. They're moving onto the grasslands, they're following the herds, they're looking for the game kills, and they're encountering mushrooms and testing them for food value. Okay, very simple three-step process. When you take psilocybin in very small amounts, amounts so small that subjectively you don't notice anything. Rowan Fisher did tests in the 1960s, and he showed, using rats and later graduate students, that small amounts of psilocybin actually increase visual acuity. And he gave people eye tests, a particular kind of eye test where there were two parallel bars. And by turning a crank out of sight of the test subject, you could deform these bars so they were no longer parallel. And the subject would push a button when they felt the bars had moved out of parallel. No question, the very slightly stoned people could pick this up much faster than an ordinary person. Okay, you don't have to be an evolutionary biologist to know that if there's a plant in the environment of a hunting animal that will improve the visual acuity of that hunting animal, then those animals that admit that into their diet are going to outbreed the other individuals who don't admit it into their diet because they're going to have more success at hunting, which means more food, which means more babies and more successful adults, so forth and so on. First step. Second step, slightly more psilocybin. Now what happens? Psilocybin is an endohalacinogen like LSD, ibogaine, so forth, beta-carbolines, DMT. Okay, it's a CNS activator. That means that it is going to cause CNS arousal. Forget CNS, it's going to cause arousal. Forget arousal, that means erection. Okay, so in the mid-range dose on psilocybin, it's causing an interest in sexual activity. Increased generalized arousal, but it's an itch you can't scratch and you usually settle down to getting laid. I mean, this is just how arousal works. Okay, so then, and now what is this doing? It's like an aphrodisiac or something in the food chain of this animal. Well, what is it doing? It's causing more of what primatologists call successful copulations, and these successful copulations are happening in the presence of an increased food source because of the increased visual acuity. So you see what is happening. The factors are beginning to snowball that will favor the outbreeding of the non-mushroom using part of the population. Well, then at still higher levels of psilocybin ingestion, you get the full-blown psychedelic ecstasy, which even we as moderns with Heidegger and Husserl tucked under our arm, we don't know what the hell's going on. We are as primitive in the face of it as people in the Magdalenian were. So, but it introduces the notion of a transcendent other, a tremendum, a translinguistic reality, the experience of the logos, the unspeakable, in other words, religion. So here's a three-step process. Increased success in hunting brings increased food supply, which brings increased sexual activity, which brings higher birth rate, which is all happening in the ambiance of this tremendous psychedelic experience. Now, I think that that alone is sufficient to make the case that it must have been indole alkaloids in the early human diet that catapulted us into this extraordinary relationship to language and cognition that we have. But there's more to it than that, because we just have been glossing this thing that we call the psychedelic experience. After all, what is it? Well, then when you try and go into it and say, what is it? I think that a number of issues are coming together that may not have appeared to be related. The hysteria over drugs in our society, the apparent approach of the end of all life as we know it on this planet, and our political wrongheadedness. Well, now, what does all this have to do with a hypothesized relationship of proto-humans to a food source in the belts of Africa a million years ago? Well, I just prefer this kind of big picture analysis, that's it. And what I think happened is that if you know anything about monkeys, they are not very pleasant creatures. They have a male dominance hierarchy, what's called an alpha male primate, and he kicks everybody around and keeps the good women for himself and the good food and so forth. As we look at lower primates, it's a fairly discouraging picture. But I believe that shamanism in its heyday was not the feeble curing of psychological ailments that we grant to shamanism on the borders of the third world today, but that it was a deeper understanding of nature and humanity than we possess right now. And that what the high shamanism of the Paleolithic did was it put us into a quasi-symbiotic relationship with the mind of the earth, if you can grok this, that there is actually a chemical network of communication, that the earth is a living organism, yes, but it's also a reflected-minded organism. And this is beyond what Lovelock and all those people