we were so into this is because the thing that is so unbelievable even by psychedelic standards about the DMT flash is that it's inhabited. It's not simply a reorganization of brain states or an insight about your sexuality or your anything. It's a place full of beings that are frantically trying to communicate with you. Beings that are far weirder than any of the beings that haunt the tabloids in the supermarket. I mean real aliens. Aliens that don't even seem to be exactly made of ordinary space and time, but an intelligence. I knew having grown up with this kind of scientific thing in my background that from a scientific point of view it was either impossible or that we had made a great discovery. I still think that we made a great discovery. I mean it was sort of like the discovery of America. There were already millions of people living there when it was discovered, but nevertheless for white boys in the middle class in Berkeley we were definitely making a discovery that these drugs don't distort reality or expand reality or they introduce you to entirely new and utterly unsuspected realities. Realities that confound reason. This you see, this is what I had been looking for. I wanted a miracle. A real miracle. Not a miracle where you had to bow down and wear a dhoti and sweep up around the ashram and kowtow. A real miracle. As far as I know, and I haven't had to change my opinion since 1971, DMT is a miracle. I mean it's like being struck by noetic lightning. It's the one thing that you've convinced yourself is impossible. Whatever that thing is that you have managed to convince yourself is impossible. Smoke DMT and it will just kick open the door of your apartment and take you prisoner. Rotate the wheels on your after-death vehicle, balance them, present the bill and depart up the chimney. It's really something. There's nothing like it, this side of the yawning grave. So I determined I had to understand it and now I think I do not understand it, but I've managed to lead many people by one means or another through my exhortation or my writing to climb up to the rim and have a look over. It has been established by a tiny but vocal minority as a true phenomenon, a fact of this world. And so then any cultural dialogue that goes on to some degree must assimilate it. If any point of view which ignores this is not addressing the full spectrum of reality as to what to make of it, I have no idea what to make of it. This is my life's struggle to know what to make it. It is impossible and yet occurs and it transcends ordinary emotions. You can't say you're afraid of it or you love it or you fear it. It's just appalling, that's all. It shatters all illusions of a stable, coherent, understood, manageable universe and says, no, no, no, that's just a fiction told around the campfire. What's true is this thing that English can't even approach. We are just, English and all other descriptive approaches are simply melted and blown back from the strangeness of it. And yet, having said all that about it, it's just one toke away. And it's just one toke away and then 10 minutes after that you're back. So it's like this bizarre thing. I mean people go to the Himalayas, they don't screw for 20 years, they eat bad food, they journey here, they journey there, they stick pins in themselves, they stand on their heads and this thing is just waiting. One large inhalation away and pretty incontrovertible. In other words, its most spectacular effects occur when used on doubters. How we love to watch them twitch there on the floor after having announced that drugs don't really do anything. Well, here's one that does something. Try this on for size. And then it's just a matter, I guess, once you arrive at that place, I guess I should say this, it's sort of the game changes. We talked a lot this morning and last night about juvenileization and neoteny and all that. Well, it's very, very easy to be a seeker. It's a fool's game. And archetypically the seeker is always a bit of a fool. I mean, what is required of the seeker? Basically nothing but a strong stomach for authoritarianism. You just keep looking, you know, this teacher, that method, this ashram, that dojo, whatever, seek, seek, seek. And after you've sought for 20, 30 years, it's pretty easy to assume that there's no reason to expect you'll ever get anywhere. Well, DMT changes the nature of the game. DMT is not about seeking the answer. It is the answer. And so once you, by chance or design, encountered it, or even the rumor of it, the game becomes quite a bit more grown up. Now you have to face the answer. You found it. No more trips to Ceylon are necessary. No more journeys down to be with Don so-and-so or any of that malarkey. You can just put that on the shelf now. You're now an adult. You have entered the big time. No opening of chakras or revelation of shastras or passing of mantras or, you know, building of yantras is going to carry you any further than where you finally arrived. You have found the answer. Now you have to face it. And people hate that. It's appalling. It doesn't feel like fun at all. It's like, you know, the answer. Here it is. What to do with it? And I don't know what to do with it. You know, Kathleen? Did you find other mixtures that extended that experience besides IMOs? Any MAO, if your MAO is inhibited, for the rest of you, this is an enzyme system that operates in the guts. Normally DMT is destroyed in the intestine. But if you pre-treat yourself with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, it will survive in the guts and pass into the bloodstream and hence into the brain. So ayahuasca, yagé, these things are strategies for making DMT orally active. Any MAO inhibitor will make you hypersensitive to psychoactive tryptamines. But I think it's important to follow the tradition of these South American shamans, because some of these MAO inhibitors are too strong. Some last days, some weeks. The compound in ayahuasca that is doing the MAO inhibition is harmine. It's known, its pharmacological profile is that it's reversible in four to six hours. Great. Perfect. Exactly the right time window. Because you don't want a 12, 36, 48, 72 hour trip. Nor do you presumably, if you're trying to get away from this flash effect of DMT, do you want a three, four, five, 10 minute trip? So a four to six hour MAO inhibition is just about right. Can you recommend a source of harmine? A source of harmine? Well, I'd rather recommend a source of harmaline, a close relative compound. And the reason for that is harmine, which is what actually occurs in banisteriopsis copy, is some has, as one of its effects, it tends to cause nausea. Harmaline is much less active on the stomach. And an excellent source of harmaline is the seeds of pagamum harmala. Pagamum harmala is a zygophyllaceous shrub that grows naturally from Morocco to Manchuria. Huge stands of it exist in the American Southwest in places like Deming, New Mexico, and up near Lake Tahoe on Route 50. And it produces a hard little black seed, which if you take two grams of this seed, it will very effectively inhibit your monoamine oxidase. If you don't take it with a psychedelic, you will probably notice only a kind of sedating effect, nothing dramatic. But if you complex it with DMT, it will turn on all the lights on the Christmas tree. Pagamum, P-E-R-G-A-M-U-M, harmala, H-A-R-M-A-L-A. It's sold in Iranian markets under the name harmal and is used as an incense. Do not take more than two grams of this. It works. Now to be fair, if you're going to start doing this, I mean, you really should. There's a lot of homework and scholarship, a little chemistry, a little botany. You really should try to inform yourself about what's going on because you're taking charge of your spiritual existence. These are the tools. These are the means. Know the tools, know the means, and then you won't screw up. Yeah. Yeah, there's a lot of bad information around. Yeah. Well, there are some books that are more trustworthy than others. For example, Jonathan Ott is a meticulous scholar, very rarely makes technical mistakes. So he's one person to look at. There aren't a lot of how to do it manuals in drug taking because it's a thankless task for an author. You just gain social disgrace. There are some lists on the internet, like at Lyceum, there are very large data archives maintained and people with an interest in keeping the integrity of the data high, but never trust. You know, as Gorbachev said, trust but verify because it's not like if you get your mantra wrong, something terrible will happen. But if you get your molecule wrong, something terrible well might happen. So you have to be more careful and more responsible because these things actually work. The way I think of the categories of these psychedelics, people have done different maps of it, but the way I think about it is like a bullseye, like a target.