that is rooted in our experience. If we empower our experience, we will cease to be the easily manipulated democratic masses. Do you know what democratic masses, do you know what kind of an insult that is to you and me to be called the democratic masses? If we empower ourselves and become reacquainted with the authentic dimension within us, then we won't put up with this crap anymore. This is what happened in the 1960s. People wouldn't put up with it anymore and they poured into the streets and raised, holy hell, scared everybody to death. Why wouldn't they put up with it anymore? Because they saw how shoddy, chintzy, and knocked together it is. We've been sold a pig and a poke. It's not worth having. These things don't make us happy. They don't bring us wisdom. They don't give us death. It's an infantile, insulting, ridiculous society, except that it's holding a gun to the head of every living thing on this planet. Shamanism with courage and commitment is, as far as I can see, the last best hope of mankind. Otherwise, there is no hope. In other words, I'm not saying this is easy, or now you've heard me say this, so we're gonna say it's the world. No, I give us a one chance in 50, but this is the only game in town. Helmut Kohl isn't gonna do, not Gorby, nobody. Those guys are caught in their own definition. Nothing changes people like psychedelics, and changing people is what we've got to do. We've got to do it ourselves and other people, fast. Thank you very much. Yeah, you have to be able to perceive, almost schizophrenically. You have to see, I mean, you have to see. We were talking, his name has been bandied about this weekend, Philip K. Dick. What happened to Phil was that the resonance became stronger than the reality, or it became equal in strength, so that by squinting, he could see, you know, second century Rome. Everybody changed into people wearing togas and speaking Demotic Greek and everything. Well, that was the resonance of where he was at, but when the resonance comes forward with such strength that the foreground is displaced, they have a name for that, buggo. And, you know, you gotta watch that. On the other hand, if you can control it, it's a source of great richness and inner amusement, just to see, you know, somebody comes scrambling up who needs their book signed, and you notice that, you know, who you've got in front of you is Charlie Chaplin or Adolf Hitler, or some, you know, everyone has these people inside them, and they come and go on the surface. I mean, you aren't who you think you are. You aren't even who you think you aren't. I mean, it's very, very tricky, yeah. All cultures are embedded in this culture. I mean, on this island, you can find Amazonian Indians. You can find Sufi saints. You can find Satanists. It's all here, probably within walking distance of where we're sitting. Yeah, synchronicity, coincidence, all that stuff is very peculiar. I remember, this'll be the last, Dan. Anecdote. I was in a restaurant a few years ago in Malibu with a bunch of Hollywood people, and there was this woman there, this French woman, and she wasn't terribly hip, but she had been introduced by somebody to my shtick, and so we were all there, and she said, this mushroom, you say that it speaks to you, but I don't understand, speak, what do you mean? And I said, well, you know, it can take on various persona. For instance, I'm thinking since she was a film producer, I should appeal to her industry. I said, remember the role that Steiger played in The Pawnbroker? Well, sometimes the mushroom is like that, and at that moment, Steiger leaned across the table to be introduced to everybody, and I, so then we all shook hands with Rod Steiger. He went back to his table, and Ralph Abraham, who had been sitting across from this French woman and I, watching this whole thing, leaned over and said to me, you see, Terrence, it's just the mushroom's way of showing you that it can reach out and touch you anywhere. Anyway, it does, the mushroom is very much like Rod Steiger. I said to it once, what are you doing on this planet? Said, listen, you're a mushroom, you live cheap. This was not such a bad neighborhood until the monkeys went nuts, which is true, actually. All right, we've probably staved off serious work just about as long as we can, unless someone insists, no. Okay, well, today's thing is sort of a return to a more orthodox educational kind of mode, hopefully not to such a degree that it's boring, but the agenda is to talk about hermeticism and alchemy, the way in which this tradition, which is counterintuitive and heterodox, if not heretical from the point of view of Christianity, and what it can mean for the present, what it means for the psychedelic experience, what it means for the notion of the end of history, and how the loss of this point of view has probably done us a certain amount of damage. The great tension in the Middle Ages was between, the late Middle Ages, was between the magical schema, the magical view of human beings, and the Christian view. And the Christian view is very strongly marked by the idea of man's fall, that we screwed up early on, and somehow then, by virtue of that, were forced into a secondary position in the cosmic drama. We are doing penance as we speak. The world is a veil of tears. The lot of human beings is to till hard land, and we are cursed until the 19th century. Generation or something like that, by the fall of our first parents. And we can be redeemed, this is, I'm giving you the Christian wrath. We can be redeemed through Christ, but we don't deserve it. It is, if you are saved, it is because there is a kind of, a hand extended to you from a merciful God, who is willing to overlook your wormy nature, and draw you up in spite of yourself. And this is deep in us, no matter how, whether you're, you may not think you've bought in because you're black, or because you're Chinese, or something, but it's just in the air we breathe. It's what Western civilization makes you think, whether you want to think it or not. Even if you don't come out of these traditions, for us, the concept of that you've gotta pay your dues, that's what it comes down to. The idea that human beings are co-partners with deity in the project of being, this is the basis of all magic. You see, in a Christian context, magic is heresy, because it implies that man can command God to act. In other words, that in some strange way, the magician compels nature to behave. As the magician desires. In Hermeticism, it isn't so much put in terms of compel, but the idea is that humanity, human beings, men and women of great spiritual accomplishment are co-partners in the project of being. And that God, as it were, stepped off the stage of creation with it only 90% completed. And the rest is left in the hands of his brother. The Hermetica actually refers to humanity as the brother of God. So it's a completely different attitude toward being human. It's an empowering attitude. With power comes the potential to abuse power, because you're no longer a worm. You remember that image in Jonathan Edwards' sermon that sinners in the hands of an angry God, where he says you're like a worm suspended over an abyss, held there only by the love of a merciful God, implying that if he weren't a merciful God, he'd just let go of your thread and you'd go down the tubes. In the Hermetic magical view, human beings are not tainted by original sin. And no ideology is without the potential of abuse. The Hermetic attitude in the Renaissance was summed up in a single aphorism by the great Renaissance Platonist Marcello Ficino and what he said was, and I have to, you know, there's no sexism in all of this. You just have to realize these guys were primitive types and they hadn't confronted the political issues we've confronted. So when they say man, they mean humanity. The Renaissance magical attitude is summed up in Ficino's aphorism, man is the measure of all things. And this is a double-edged sword because in a single affirmation, you cast off the guilt trip. You cast off the view of ourselves as a flawed creature. But when you say man is the measure of all things, I mean, you could be the chairman of the board of Louisiana Pacific or Dow Chemical. I mean, this is approximately their attitude. In other words, it ain't rainforests. It's not the life of the earth. It's none of that malarkey. We are to be the measure of all things. So it has to be tempered. We'll probably end up talking a bit here about what is about the pathological expression of the hermetic position, which is called Faustianism. And Faustianism is where you have unbridled ego, unbridled faith in the intellect so that you proceed forward without self-doubt. If you haven't read Faust recently, it's a surprising read. First of all, it's very funny. It's hilarious. It's funnier than any of Shakespeare's plays, I think. And the way it ends is the guy dedicates himself to land reclamation and the draining of swamps to build low-cost housing for poor people. And people don't know this. They're caught up in the images of the center of the story where magical power is running rampant. But Faust's final conclusion is that he should do some good work for the least of society and give up these Promethean and titanic dreams of the mastery of power. Well, a little bit of history about this hermetic ideal. It's an interesting story in the light of our...