evening because I think, in the absence of this theory, the psychedelic community has no strong argument to lay before society at large as to why these things are so important. But if, in fact, these are the catalysts, these psychedelic compounds are the catalysts for everything that we call humanness, for the very basis of the notion of caring, altruism, civilization, community, if what lies behind these notions is a symbiotic relationship to psychedelic plants present in the environment, then the sooner we return to that mode, the sooner we can overcome the historical dysfunction that otherwise is a death sentence upon us. So I don't advocate this because I think it's easy or because it has a high probability of being accepted and implemented. I advocate it because I think it's the only answer and that it would be gross malfeasance on my part, believing that, to not lay the cards on the table. That's all that I can do and I hope that if you find this argument convincing, you will find further arguments to buttress it and we can get this phenomenon out of the closet and into the general theater of debate about the fate of global civilization so that we can begin to make real positive changes because the clock is ticking, folks. This is not a test. I mean, we have to either create some fantastically brilliant forward escape out of the closing grinding jaws of history or we will be history. Thank you very much. One of the things that is a personal interest of mine that stands out from the general background of the psychedelic experience is the way that it throws light on language and I discovered that audiences seem fairly responsive to this question, even though it seemed to me at first fairly hard to articulate it and fairly hard to say too much about it. So tonight, to indulge myself and anybody else who has a particular interest in this aspect of it, I want to say more about it and maybe talk for 40 minutes or so and then take questions and I think it's by talking, it's perhaps a tautology to think that by talking about a linguistic phenomenon or a linguistic problem you can illuminate it, but I'm interested in how it strikes other people and the kind of dialogue that can be generated by talking about it. First of all, to background what I'm saying a little bit, I recently ran across a very interesting analogy or metaphor that seemed useful to me, which was, it was a historical analogy saying that when civilizations come into crisis, they inevitably, one of their strategies for survival is to cast back to an earlier period of time, an earlier cultural ideal, and then to try to exemplify it, to exemplify its values and as the obvious example and the most recent phenomenon of this sort on any large scale is the Renaissance, in which the breakdown of medieval society and the rise of mercantilism generated a need to cast back into time for a set of values and then to realize them, and the period of time that was chosen was classical Greece and Rome, and so painting, sculpture, poetry reflected an effort to recapture classical values. What I think is happening in the present and by the present, I mean the whole 20th century, is a similar thing, a similar culture crisis, but on a much grander and more global and more threatening scale and a casting back for a previous cultural model that can, whose ideals, if we could realize them, would save our own civilization, the same idea that the Renaissance had about classical Greece, but strangely the period that we have decided, that we have fastened on without ever making a conscious decision, but as a reflection of decisions made in the mass psyche of the species, the period that we have settled on is the archaic period which precedes human history, and so cubism and the things that were done for literature by Joyce and Pound and the glorification of barbarism and the recovery of the unconscious, first the sexual nature of the unconscious through Freud, later the mass archetypal structure through Jung. In other words, the great movements of the 20th century, even Marxism, can be seen as efforts to recapture prehistoric, sacral values, and this process has been going on for 50 years or so, different adumbrations of it at different times, and now, and for the past 10 years or so, the theme of shamanism, the rediscovery of Paleolithic religion, and the rise of the use of hallucinogenic drugs, which were the driving force of Paleolithic religion, has come into the fore. Well, okay, holding that in your mind for a moment, recall Marshall McLuhan's idea that technologies for conveying information shift ratios in the mass psyche and the way that it relates to the world, and he was famous for predicting what he called electronic feudalism. He said that the television screen was more like a page of manuscript than a page of print, and that as the linearity and uniformity and rational assumptions of grammar were transcended in the conveying of information to be replaced by electronic gestalts that were looked at rather than read, that the ratios between the senses would shift, and that this would have profound effects on art and the history of ideas and this sort of thing. What has happening is that a kind of super McLuhanistic phenomenon is happening, where we are collapsing not into the electronic feudalism that he discussed, but into the electronic tribalism which he discussed, and it is shifting our sensory ratios away from the audio and toward the visual. And this brings me now to my subject, which is the transformations of language under the influence of the psychedelic experience. The fact that there is a spectrum of vocal and psychological and psychomental phenomena that range all the way from the recitation of learned material through freely formed speech and into these trance-like religious phenomena that go under the category glossolalia, and these things are experienced by the people who do them as having a varying relationship to the visual rather than the audio sense. We had a discussion a couple of nights ago with Ralph Abraham about when you are asked to conjure the idea of an orange, what is this idea made out of? When you close your eyes and think of an orange, is what you think of made of language or is it made of light? And what you say in answer to this question, what does it say about you and the way in which you're embedded in your culture? Under the influence of psilocybin particularly, the language forming centers are activated, and they are activated in tandem with the visual cortex so that forms of synesthesia are experienced, which are linked first of all to sound, so that people singing control the fabric of hallucination through sound. And we found this to be true of ayahuasca in the Amazon, where definitely the shaman's use of voice controls the fabric, the visual fabric of what's going on. But there is yet another level to that phenomenon, which is with the addition of meaning, the control of the visual surface, the topology of meaning, if you will, rather than the ongoing decoding from a dictionary is transcended. Meaning then is able also to work its adumbrations on this topological surface, and you see into, well there are different ways of cognizing it, the place where the ursprach is coming from, the assembly language that lies behind all formalized or culturally validated languages. Wittgenstein called it the unspeakable. It's the place where explication cannot go almost by definition in order to avoid a tautology. Well now it seemed to me that the nearness of these tryptamine hallucinogens to normal metabolites of brain chemistry and the fragileness that people like McLuhan and Julian Jaynes have shown to be a part of the way we construct our world, in other words that it's a delicate balance of chemistry and language and history and these sensory ratios, that given all this it seemed probable to me that this phenomenon encountered in deep psychedelic experiences with psilocybin actually has a potential historical impact. It is a kind of human ability which is at present submerged in the psyche, contactable only by the shamanic means of journeying into historical hyperspace, in other words of going into that place where the adumbrations of the future are intense enough that you can have an intimation, at least, of what is to come. And I think this is what is to come and it is a kind of telepathy, but it's not telepathy as we imagined it to be. When I imagined telepathy I thought of it as hearing another person think and having them hear you think. This is something where the modality of meaning is shifted out of a common dictionary that is a cultural convention and into a a shared visual topology which is examined by both parties, both the speaker who caused this thing to be and the audience who shares the space where this is happening. It's interesting that beta-carbolines which are used to accentuate the hallucinogenic effect of DMT in these ayahuasca preparations in Amazonas is very definitely a part of normal human metabolism, brain metabolism. And the MAO inhibition that it's performing on DMT that is introduced from the outside is a mirror image of the kind of function that it's performing in the brain. So the shifting of the sensory ratios is causing language to become more visual. And at this point I always have to quote Philo Judeus who was a first century Alexandrian Jew who talked about the Logos. And I have made analogies between the phenomenon I'm describing and the Logos.