of the same catastrophe that destroyed the dinosaurs and set the stage for the emergence of the mammals. This is something people don't realize. Flowering plants are as recent as mammals. You know, if you look at the period of life on Earth is visualized as a yardstick, the period of the flowering plants is the last inch and a half. And it's also the rise of the mammals occurs in that last inch and a half. So before that, the plant life on the Earth was of a very different sort and we know nothing about its chemistry. Here's someone who asked a Zen question. What would make the present government interested in the study of psychedelics? I don't know. If they could make a buck out of it. I don't think they're very interested in psychedelics. I don't think any political, what? CIA, they were very interested in psychedelics. Except that they abandoned it. Yes, MKULTRA, for those of you who don't know, stands for Mind Control, spelled the Southern way. Mind Control Ultra was the program the CIA pursued in the 1960s where they tried out all kinds of psychedelic drugs and they also worked with it in combination with hypnosis. They were trying to make what they called the Trojan horse. This was somebody who would be an assassin but not even know it. And how far they got with all of this, we will never know because of course it all disappears behind the walls of secrecy. But the declassified history of the CIA and LSD is very interesting. Some of you may know the book Acid Dreams by Martin Lee. Fascinating history of the way the government tried and really failed, I think, to use psychedelics. The government's initial approach to LSD was, this is great, this is a truth serum. We can give this to enemy agents and they'll tell us all we know. A few months of following that path, they decided, no, this is an obscurity drug. We can give this to our agents and they can take it if they're captured and no one can learn anything from it. And clearly this was not a fruitful path either. And I don't fault the government, I don't really fault the government for this. After all, the government is in the business of being the government. I don't think any institution can inculcate psychedelics into its own program because psychedelics destroy institutions, all institutions. I mean, it's like trying to move an acid around that corrodes whatever pipes you pour it through. And because the boundary dissolving quality of psychedelics is precisely the quality that government is involved in resisting. Government builds up labels, pans out role models, explains how everything is, and this stuff just then melts that back into a primal chaos. So it's pretty corrosive of any social values that don't arise spontaneously out of biological organization. It's anarchist, it's the acid of anarchy in a way. All right, we're never gonna get through this list, but it's gratifying to know it's here if we need it. Here's a question about the time wave, which I'm gonna skip because we're not talking about the time wave today and pity the poor soul who's never heard of it. No, of any herbal sources to raise serotonin as a treatment for depression. No, I'm not, I don't know a lot about herbal medicine and that sort of thing, but raising serotonin level as a treatment for depression seems like a pretty good strategy. I don't know of herbs. Usually inhibition of serotonin is what's going on. And with these psychedelics, they do compete with serotonin for the bond site. That's what it's all about at the atomic level is in your synaptic cleft, in the synaptic clefts of your neurons, there are what are called receptors. And if you were to fly down and look at these things, they look like complex locks. Locks, there are hooks, protuberances, little drawers and fit in places. Well, then the drug molecule comes, is carried into the synaptic cleft by the bloodstream and it seeks to what's called occupy the bond site or simply bond. And it's trying to fit in. Well, the normal thing which fits in those bonding sites is serotonin. But some of these hallucinogens are much better fits than natural serotonin. They are what pharmacologists say competitive at the bond site. And so they literally elbow the serotonin out of the way. And then they fit themselves into the receptor. Well, once the receptor and its fit, its agonist are in place, then the bio-dynamic, the bioelectric field of the synapse can be activated. Well, if you swap out serotonin for an exotic molecule like harmine or mescaline or something like that, well, then this shifts the mode of this molecular level electrical environment. And I believe that that is what then registers as a higher cortical experience that we call the trip. It's the experience of hundreds of millions of these introduced molecules displacing the normal serotonin and then broadcasting this signal in a slightly different way than it is normally perceived. So there's a molecular connection. There's a connection down into the molecular level. This will be our last one this morning. Language transcendence. Huxley, Young, and others often mention liberating and enlightening epiphanies as beyond language and iconic imagery. You yourself mentioned this. Can you explain further the use of transcendental language? Yeah, and we might talk about that a little this afternoon. I sort of alluded to it this morning. My idea is that language is a process that is half completed in us as we sit here and that language is really something which wants to be seen, not heard, but that we are on our way to evolving toward this visible language. And we currently are operating with these somewhat substandard acoustical codes where I make small mouth noises. They go through the air. They strike your ear. You look in a culturally validated dictionary. If your dictionary is like my dictionary and you understand what's in your dictionary, then we say we are communicating. But in a visual language, in a visibly beheld language, there is no culturally validated dictionary. There is simply a hardwired kind of animal language that we all understand instantly from birth without any cultural acclamation to it because it is the natural language of human beings. Getting out, revealing, defining, refining this natural language. The place where the psychedelics impact upon us as social creatures is the language domain. I mean, you may have tremendous paraphonies and breakthroughs, but if you can't talk about it or paint about it, you can't talk about it. If you can't talk about it or paint about it or dance about it or in any way communicate it to anybody, then it is not efficacious for the species. It's just your private entertainment. So the domain of language is where the collective impact is coming. And one of the things I think about psychedelics is that they are probably capable of helping us force the evolution of language because we cannot move into the future any faster than our language of description for the future. So if we're interested in streamlining culture and getting away from this sort of random walk style of cultural evolution, then we have to look at rationally interfacing with the evolution of language. And maybe we can talk about that when we come back. Thanks very much. I appreciate you sitting for this. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. Beh. So we discussed basically the distribution of these psychoactive plants with a history of shamanic use, and then discussed a little bit about the history of them. And I didn't really finish with that, because I want to stress that this, I think what we talked about this morning is we got them all to a good place. We got them all to paradise in Africa with clear vision, much food, and plenty of horsing around, and then we broke for lunch. The forces that created that partnership society in prehistory, the forces that allowed the emergence of a non-male dominant social style, were the same forces which then eventually destroyed it as well. Because it was nothing more than climatological change is what was happening. As the African continent became drier, the grasslands retreated, the water holes became less frequent and further apart, and the mushroom came under pressure because of increased dryness. And at that point I think probably the mushroom festivals became less and less frequent. The whole thing became more tenuous, and there was great pressure then to try and figure out how to preserve the mushrooms through the dry times of the year to have them available for ceremonies. And I think that it's the use of honey as a preservative that really set the stage for things to go wrong, because honey turns into a psychedelic compound on its own if you do nothing to it but leave it alone. It ferments, it becomes mead, and mead is a primitive kind of alcoholic beverage. Over several millennia, what began as an ecstatic mushroom cult turned into a beer cult, a cult of alcoholic intoxication. And then you get the same shift of ratios that you see in our own society. How many women in our own society have their first sexual experiences in an atmosphere of alcohol abuse and misuse? The two almost go together, and less in the 20th century. Before the 20th century, it's almost possible to imagine nobody got laid for a thousand years in the West without being pretty juiced up, because it was pretty unappetizing I imagine. So this is a way in which sensory modalities and emphasis on different aspects of psyche change over time without a culture even being aware of it. And then I talked this morning a little bit about the fall into history, the neurotic dysfunctionalism that characterizes historical existence. And I think it's worth going back to that, because some people have the idea that psychedelics are a kind of instant psychotherapy, and that they address the concerns of the individual, but they're not concerned to link it up to history, to see what it was for us in the past and what its absence has done for us. I think that the whole phenomenon that we call...