inspiration of recklessly large doses of Stropharia cubensis, which we found growing in the pasture there, he decided that what we could do was we would take a trip, but that he would attempt to imitate the harming hum and that, granted, you know, the human body is a very gross thing in comparison to the almost quantum chemical domain of the synapse and and the nucleus, but that nevertheless, if you could generate the sound correctly, you would force the molecule in into the neuron, and then there was another part of the theory which had to do with the idea that these psychedelic molecules are like octaves of each other, and if any of you have ever played the cello, you know that you can sound a note on the cello, and then if you still the string, you will hear what are called overtonal harmonics. It will sound in the octave above and below the octave in which the note was struck, and he felt that if, again here, I mean I'm giving this to you at enormous speed, superconductivity, which is normally associated with low temperatures, is in fact a low temperature phenomenon, but that's when you have populations of trillions of molecules. Really what superconductivity means is the stilling of molecular motion, and if it's absurd to talk, to speak of a single atom or a single molecule as being 275 degrees kelvin below zero, because temperature is a phenomenon of mass populations of molecules, but he felt that you could essentially still these molecules, and one of the peculiar qualities of superconductive molecules is that they will bond to anything. They have a tremendous stickiness about them, so he thought that the human voice could be used to cancel the molecular motion of these harmene molecules, and you would only have to do it for a millisecond, even though the making of the tone might take 20 or 30 seconds. If you achieved the correct geometry, the correct tonality, the correct situation, for just a millisecond, the molecule would drop, the drug molecule would drop into superconducting configuration, it would intercalate, and it would bond permanently into the thing, into the neural DNA, and then it would begin broadcasting this amplified and expanded electron spin resonance, and that what this would be, he thought, was well, he felt that it would generate like an acoustical hologram of the contents of the DNA, and he thought that this is what the magical blue phlegm is. It is its peculiar ontological status of being part matter, part psyche, arises from the fact that it is an acoustical hologram generated out of the body. It's like an, it's like ectoplasm or something. It's a, it's a wavering image of the sum total of the information within the DNA. It's sort of like trying to produce a television set without a tele, or a television, the experience of television without a television set. Well, I thought that all of this sounded so wacky, and that there were so many untested assumptions and hypotheses linked together in this tinker toy structure, and since we had nothing better to do in the evenings, why not, was my attitude. So, the experiment was performed, and Dennis went bananas for about three weeks, and we had all kinds of peculiar adventures, but one of the things that happened was that I, who had been the utter skeptic, if not the contemptuous skeptic of this, noticed that immediately after the experiment, I began to have funny ideas, and, and it was just, it was as though he just turned a switch, and what he had said would happen was that he would generate out of his body a, a glowing blue disk, which would be the holding mode of this, we called, we called this process hypercarbolation. Why? I haven't the faintest idea at this distance, but the idea was essentially that you could cause your soul to become visible, and to become stabilized in three-dimensional space, that it was like a tool, that you could give birth to a thing which was an artifact, and yet at the same time, it was yourself, and that what human evolution and human history was pushing forward was the generation of, hey, let's be frank, the philosopher's stone out of the human body. You could, through a union of harmine and mind and psilocybin and intentionality, you could produce a kind of doppelganger, which would not look like a human being, it would look in its holding mode like this glowing blue disk, and, but because it is both mind and matter, it would have, and he, the way he thought of it was as a hyperdimensional molecule. In other words, yesterday, Jonathan talked about dextro and rotary rotation of molecules, that you can rotate them to the right and to the left. Well, yes, in three dimensions, but we know that the universe is, some people think, 11-dimensional, so beyond dextro and level rotation, there is also hyperdimensional rotation, or hypercarbolation, and he thought that once you did this, the continued existence of your physical body would become optional, and you would be able to operate as this thing which is essentially the imagination bound into three-dimensional space, and he thought that these shamans producing this phlegm, that they were on the brink of something like this. Now, I grant you that this is far-fetched. If you think I don't think it's far-fetched, you don't understand where I'm coming from, but the idea was so incredibly beguiling and attractive, because what he said was, if you have this, if you can produce this ultimate tool, then you can do anything. I mean, if you want to take a shower on it, you just stretch it out and water pours out of it. If you want to go somewhere, you turn it over and sit on it and it flies. If you're hungry, you eat it. Do you get the idea? So I said, you know, you can't be serious, Dr. McKenna, although he wasn't a doctor at the time. So this experiment was performed. He began to behave very peculiarly, and I began to have these funny ideas, and one thing which did happen, which I offer as evidence for the manipulation of some very, very peculiar effect out on the edge of intelligibility, was I didn't sleep for 11 days, and he had said this would happen. He said, you will no longer need to sleep, you will no longer excrete, you will no longer eat, because your body has become superconductive, and you are essentially, you have sealed yourself off, you have become the stuff of soul, you are no longer embedded in the world of metabolism. And he had the idea that the thing would occur instantly, this blue disk would appear instantly. And of course, when the experiment was performed, nothing of the sort happened. But instead, what I began to generate were what I call from my experience with Jungian psychology, totality symbols. A totality symbol is an idea which explains everything. It can be as simple as the syllable om, or a mandala, or a mathematical description of reality. I mean, some totality symbols are obviously more appropriate, more effective than others. And it was some kind of a psychotic episode, but it was a very curious psychotic episode, because it took the form of being spread out through the whole universe, and then over a period of 21 days, imploding backward into yourself, so that like the first day after the experiment, he was just incomprehensibly bizarre, just universally, I mean, it was just, it was like witnessing someone acting out the Big Bang, or something like that. Then the next day, he was condensed down into the local cluster, and we got a recitation somewhat like Olaf Stapleton's The Star Maker. Then the next day, and he said the lens-like shape of galaxies is a macro-physical reflection of this thing which we were trying to create, which he called the lens. And so by a series of telescoping leaps, he made his way toward normality, condensing down through the galaxy to the solar system, spending a day on each planet as he made his way toward the Earth, becoming the Earth, becoming all the life on the Earth, then becoming all human life, then becoming all Irish life, then becoming our entire family, doing perfect voice imitations of all the relatives, and revealing all this knowledge of, you know, skeletons in the closet, and suppressed stuff, and stuff that I don't know how he knew all this stuff. I mean, he appeared to be, he at times appeared to work miracles. At one point, I was trying to test him and his abilities, and I recalled that there was a box that my grandfather had given me that you opened with a little silver key that had been lost for years and years. And I said, well, if you can do anything, why don't you produce the key to that box, which neither of us had seen even the box for a dozen years. By this time, he was naked and locked in a room at the mission. And he went and he would make these bizarre gestures, these strange, I don't know what was going on. And he went into a period of concentration, gave a wild squawk, and slammed into my hand and gave me the key, gave me the key. He was naked. He had been locked in this room for 14 days at that time. And I was like, I didn't know what was going on. But what was happening to me was, I was like, utterly unconcerned for his mental health or any practical concern, which was causing a lot of problems for the other people on the expedition. In classical psychology, this is called a follé à deux, a delusion of two. It's a simultaneous schizophrenic episode. It usually involves a mother and a daughter. I've never heard of a brother-brother follé à deux. But it was accompanied by all these exterior