different dimension. We, whether grandly or perversely, the verdict is not yet in, we dragged ourselves out of the sea of telepathic, interconnected signification that united all life, and we exist, panting and pop-eyed, in this other dimension called history, ego awareness, presence of self, sense of loss, anticipation of gain, all of these dimensions of experience really have been added to what was previously the animal Tao, just the howling at the moon Tao of animal existence, and to this we have added a dimension of future anticipation, a dimension of regret, a dimension of how do I make choices, and so forth and so on. There is not a, I don't put a moral judgment on this, but it has to be said that in the tradition of the West, this has been viewed classically as the fall, this is the fall, into names instead of realities, into constructs of reality rather than reality itself, and this has now been inculcated into each and every one of us as both the glory and the trauma of human existence, which is our extraordinary ability to reside in and be in language. So for instance, I've made this example before, a child lying in a crib, and a hummingbird comes into the room, and the child is ecstatic, because this shimmering iridescence of movement and sound and attention, it's just wonderful, I mean it is an instantaneous miracle when placed against the background of the dull wallpaper of the nursery and so forth, but then mother or nanny or someone comes in and says, it's a bird baby, bird, bird, and this takes this linguistic piece of mosaic tile and places it over the miracle and glues it down with the epoxy of syntactical momentum, and from now on, the miracle is confined within the meaning of the word, and by the time a child is four or five or six, no light shines through, they have tiled over every aspect of reality with a linguistic association that blunts it, limits it, and confines it within cultural expectation. But this doesn't mean that this world of signification is not outside, still existent, beyond the horizons, the foreshortened horizons of a culturally validated language. Well, so then classically, the path through this has been through use of psychedelic plants or some form of ascetic practice or fasting or prayer and meditation, whatever, some way of breaking through, and it is literally presented as a breaking through, a penetration to another level, that culture is an imprisoning bubble of interlocking assumptions that are like a collective hallucination. I mean, I hate to say it because it's a recursive metaphor, but culture is like a delusion of some sort, because it isn't true, of course. It isn't true if you're a Wetoto. It isn't true that you came from the piss of the Anaconda God when he had to get out of his canoe at the first waterfall. That's not really true, but that's your cultural myth and you live inside it. Our cultural myths that the world is made of things called new mesons and antiprotons is, of course, not true either. But it's a linguistic construct that we culturally validate and live inside. And these cultural myths give permission for certain things. Basically, they give permission to ignore certain kinds of realities. So our language is uniquely set up to ignore, for example, the suppression of femininity. It's also uniquely set up to suppress the statistically infrequent. We really have no patience with that. We have an assembly mind mentality. What we're interested in is that things run smoothly. One can imagine a completely different mentality that cared nothing for statistical norms and only pursued the miraculous. I mean, India, in a way, is that society. They don't give a hoot for how it works on the humdrum level, but the alien, the peculiar, the other, the unexpected is revered, adored even. So these kinds of cultural values shift. But now, now we are in a global culture with the combined understandings of five, six, seven hundred language groups and half that many literatures being poured into a global database where some people are assimilating enough of this to begin to play their part in the creation of a kind of global meta program for language. And I think it's interesting to talk about the form that this may take because I see this as our, this is not our salvation, but this is the angel of our salvation. If we can transform and remake language, then we can have the conversation that we must have in order to save ourselves. But we cannot save ourselves until we have a language adequate to the problem that we're facing. And English just won't do it because English is a language of subject opposite, subject object opposition. It's a language of a past, present, and future. And the kind of world we're living in is not that kind of world. Now, toiling in the background, misunderstood and unnoticed for centuries have been mathematicians laboring to create what they call meta languages of description that seem to them very satisfying to the rest of us very bewildering. And a question worth asking is why is it that this language, mathematics, which we have so much trouble understanding, seems so tremendously powerful when it comes to the description of nature? This is not a trivial question. Why should numbers, in a sense the most abstract quintessence of the human mind, have anything whatsoever to say about the topology of three-dimensional space and time? It isn't clear. What I believe is happening, and we talked about this last night, generally in the form of a conservation of novelty throughout the history of the universe. But I tended last night to present the universe as a material thing. I spoke of atoms concressing into molecules, into organic creatures, into thinking beings with civilizations and so forth. But another way to think of this is a kind of take a spiritual x-ray of the material universe and then say if matter is merely the vehicle of the transformations that we call the life of the universe, well then what is the inner dynamic composed of? What is it that is striving? What is it that bootstraps itself forward? What is it that self-reflects? Well, I think what it is is it's actually information. Information is some kind of ontological modality that is capable of organizing any system in which it inhabits into self- reflection. So you pour information into matter and you get back DNA capable of making life. But you know there is a persistent spiritual tradition backed up by psychedelic and shamanic experience that says that there are also hierarchies of incorporeal and disincarnate intelligence that is nevertheless highly organized. Well, until the advent of the computer I think we were just pretty much at a loss to form any conception whatsoever of how you could have consciousness without a body. But the computer shows us that you can have large-scale systems which have degrees and then you know there's a long philosophical wrangle which we can just stamp as for another time, degrees of sentience in operating systems. So then it seems to mean that information is the thing which uses matter, uses light, uses spirit, uses whatever it can put its hands on to organize itself into higher and higher levels of self-reflection. Well then to what end? I mean what is all this? Is it just an innate drive toward totality or is it a process which exists completed in some higher dimensional space and we are somehow trapped in a lower dimensional matrix and we have to endure the illusion that it is incomplete? I mean I don't have answers for these things. This is the business of theologians basically to tell us where we are in this universal machine. But I think that what we can do to enrich our experience and to feed data into our heuristic models is to begin to think in terms of language as the material that we need to work with instead of public opinion or matter or even energy. It's meaning that we need to coax into our lives. Number one, as meaning enters our lives individually, we become more capable of raising our voices both in joyous song and in political protest if necessary. My whole shtick and the whole shtick of the psychedelic experience I think is reclaim immediate experience. Realize that you out vote all parliaments, police forces and major newspapers on the planet because who knows they may be illusions. Complicated phenomenological forms of analysis can be carried out to show that their existence is in considerable doubt. But if you carry out this phenomenological reduction you will discover that it reinforces the notion that you must actually exist and be real. So therefore you start from that. That nub of immediate experience and real being and extrapolation outward should be very provisional. I don't know how Buddhism handles this. I grant you all a strong possibility of existing but I'm not nearly as sure about you as I am about me. I don't think any of you should be more sure of the rest of us than yourself. The world could be anything. It could be a solid state matrix of some sort. It could be an illusion. It could be a dream. It really could be a dream. So it pays to stay on your toes I think. In practical terms what does all this come down to besides that we should speak from the heart clearly and with our minds engaged? Well I think that remember I said we should see language as the stuff with which we work rather than matter. And that means creating a technology of the sayable. Making the complete understanding of new puns a national priority on a par with weapons development. It means exploring the real implications of substituting Finnegan's wake for the Constitution. This sort of thing. Because what we're doing you see is