the Cape Horn and sail up the coast of California. He was an intelligence operative serving Queen Elizabeth on the European continent. He could cast the best horoscope in Europe and that was his entree into these various royal families of these various capital cities of Europe. And then he was, you know, making maps of battlements and of the deployment of war facilities and ship building capacity and stuff like that and sending it all back to Elizabeth in these codes that he had learned from Trithemius, not personally, but from the Stenographica. And then a very strange incident happened, which was on a cold day in April at his house in Mortlake, which is on the outskirts of London. Now it's completely surrounded by modern London. I should say he had the largest library in England. He had 6,000 books. Sir Philip Sidney and the Queen would occasionally call upon him to shoot the bull and he was a very learned man. So one day in April of 1582, he's working at his desk at his room in Mortlake and he goes outside. There's some disturbance in the garden and he goes outside and his story, and we have only his story, is that an angel descended in a ball of light and gave him an object, which is to this day on exhibit in the British Museum. If you ever have a chance, it's worth hunting it down. It's in the Renaissance Hall and it's a piece of black polished obsidian, roughly about this big and about that thick and very highly polished. He called it the show stone, S-H-E-W. And what the deal was, was you could look into the show stone, if you had the right talent, and it was a magical theatre. There were gods and demons and female spirits and all kinds of things swirling around this thing. Well, for the next many years, the show stone was the major guiding force on Dee's life and a guy came to him named Edward Kelly. And Edward Kelly, legend has it that he had no ears, which in England at that time meant that you had committed some infraction in the province and they had removed your ears. It was the mark of a con artist. It was so you couldn't fool anybody else, they took your ears off. So then if you met somebody with no ears and a big scheme, you knew to keep your wallet in your pocket. So this guy Kelly had an immense facility with this show stone. I mean, he could just sit down with it and it is one of the most puzzling and undiscussed episodes in the evolution of Western thought. The straight people just say, well, this is a bunch of crap. You know, this guy Kelly, first of all, Dee was married to a much younger woman named Anne Dee. And at one point in the 10 years or so that Dee and Kelly were together, the angels of the show stone gave very explicit instructions. The story of my professional life is the mycologist loathed me when they realized all I cared about was psilocybin. The scholars say I'm not scholarly enough. The nuts say I'm too straight. The straight people say I'm too nuts. And so it all goes many different ways. One time it was conveyed to me that Marlene Dobkin de Rios said of me, but his scholarship is flawed. And I just roared. It reminded me of the unclear on the concept to a kind of card. It's not really about that. What there was interest in discussing, and it's only, I mean, perhaps or somewhat marginal to all of this, but fun to talk about, is the magical flams that Sparrow mentioned. This is a, well, here's the background information. They're persistent in the Amazon. Well, as you know, a lot of magic which goes on in the Amazon has to do with the sending of a magical object into the body of an enemy or a person who is made sick. And then the shamans suck these objects out. And invariably, if you were a particularly positivist chucklehead, the question arises for you, is it real? Meaning, you know, can we put it on display in a museum? And then the shamans say yes and no, and sometimes, depending on who you're talking to and probably how much aguardiente they have moving through them at the moment. Persistent is the idea that these ayahuasqueros vomit or produce out of their bodies some kind of substance, a magical substance that is the basis of their witchcraft. And, you know, your attitude toward this can be that it's sight of hand or that it's lying or that it's absolutely true. I, in my talk yesterday, I said, you know, we give great respect to these shamans. How seriously do we take their claim to do all their magic via helping spirits who are ancestors? And then we sort of explored that. Well, we give these shamans great respect. How seriously, then, are we obligated or should we take the claim that they do all of their magic by the production of a magical fluid out of their mouths and bodies, a fluid whose ontological status is far from clear? That's what I mean by you can't tell whether it's real or not. Dennis, in the early, in 1970, came across a reference to this in some piece of literature. I confess that I have occasionally cited it as Michael Harner's article, The Sound of Rushing Water, which appeared in Natural History magazine in 1967. Just to confirm Marlene's opinion, if you actually read that article, you will discover there is no reference to this in there. I couldn't find a reference in the literature until years after our investigation of the phenomenon was pretty much wrapped up. I was amazed to discover that our supposition that such a thing existed actually is supported in the literature. Luis Eduardo Luna, who some of you may know and most of you probably know his book on ayahuasca painting, has talked about this in numerous of his more scholarly publications. What is claimed is that there are among very unacculturated people a habit when intoxicated on ayahuasca of vomiting a material and then it's said, what's said of it is that it's blue, that the shamans use it to accomplish all their magic, and that when you spread it out on the bottom of a flat bowl that you can see the future in it or the past in it. Well, if we just behave like good phenomenologists and don't try to scientifically analyze this but phenomenologically analyze it, then we have to say what is being described is a form of matter which also partakes of the quality of mind. It appears to be something which is both physical and spiritual, both substantial and and psychic or psychological in some sense. And one of our motivations, I told you the story about going to La Charrera and the search for Rukuhe, but one of our motivations was to investigate this magical material and to see if we could encounter it. Sparrow is the only person I've ever met who claims to have seen something blue come out of someone's mouth on an ayahuasca trip and to be pushed back in. Some of you were there when he made the reference, you saw that I pulled no strings and in fact said nothing to prompt it. So I regard it as uncontaminated information from a deep forest informant. So what is it is a reasonable question for curious people to ask. Dennis, who tends these days to rein himself in somewhat, back in the early 70s was always willing to run the speculative engine at double speed and he felt that, well, he had a concept. And the concept was that it's actually an interlocking set of hypotheses, none of which have ever been secured. And I have to background it a little bit. As you know, it is a great mystery in neurophysiology, the mystery of memory and how it works and where are the memories is a question that has never been answered. The problem for materialists is that it's well understood that every molecule in your body is changed in about a five to nine year period. You are not who you were 10 years ago. Every atom, every molecule in your body has been swapped out with one significant exception, which is the neural substrate, the neural matrix. What you're born with is what you die with. So the memory, if you believe in a physical site of storage and all scientists do because there is no other medium open for a scientist to believe in, then it must be stored in the neural matrix. Well, so then you try to create a hypothesis of a mechanism for this memory storage and recovery. Now, this raises another complex issue, which is, and I'm moving lightning speed here, the issue of the nature of information in biological systems. As you all know, organic organisms are created and maintained by DNA. And I assume everybody understands how DNA works. I mean, it's just something you learn in high school biology courses. DNA is a very complex, super helix molecule that is essentially two structural members which are twining around each other, like a liana. And then they are connected across by nucleotides. And these nucleotides in groups of three are what are called codons, and they code for amino acids. This is, it's an important but subtle distinction that they code for the amino acids. In other words, there is nothing in principle that links a certain codon in chemistry to a certain amino acid. It is simply a conventionalized association that has apparently come