string, if you all know what cholerines are, these are erythrinas, which are related to these things. Okay, that stuff contains cytosine and cysteine. This is, these are what are called ordeal poisons, and it might be worthwhile to just talk for a minute about ordeal poisons. I said there's more than one way to skin a cat, there's more than one way to have this experience that shoves you through to an awareness of the numinous. That's what we're trying to do, is have an awareness of the numinous. Well, in certain parts of the world where hallucinogens were not present in the biome, people concentrated on ordeal poisons, and what an ordeal poison is, is it's a chemical compound that you take it and you think you're going to die, and you beg for death, and you do not die. You get better, you're fine, and you're so damn glad to be alive that you undergo an abreaction. You get straight, you shed some of your complexes, and you make a, you turn over a new leaf. This is what it is. Well, in Madagascar, these ordeal poisons have been brought to a high state of perfection. Also in Malaya, there's a poison complex that replaces a hallucinogenic drug complex, and these are horrific poisons. So, what apparently was going on in the Rio Grande Valley was, after centuries of this Sephora Secundifolia cult, someone discovered peyote, and said, my god, you know, thank God. And then the other, the other plant which was big in the, in the Southern California, Northern Mexico, and across the Southwest, were the tropane containing detours, the so-called Talach religion of Southern California. Well, these are deliriant confusions that are, unless you have a psychic constitution that is not like mine, you can't take these things. They're too, I just found them confusing. It was like a kind of madness, and also physically very difficult to handle. I experimented, I had a phase with these things when I was in Nepal, because there are sadhus, holy men in the Kathmandu Valley, who swear by this stuff, and if you're in Kathmandu, you may notice in the gutter, well, you'll notice plenty in the gutter, but you may also notice these detourapods, empty detourapods, and I noticed them and started asking questions, and then out at the King's Game Preserve, past Pashupatinath, I found a bunch of these things, and laid in a supply, and, but it is an occult, watery, it's a dimension of confusion, not a dimension of high awareness, and I think some of you have heard me tell the story about the reason I gave it up was an Englishman, a friend of mine who lived in this little village in Nepal where I lived, he was also experimenting with this stuff. One day I was buying potatoes and tomatoes in the market, and I ran into him, and we started having a conversation, and in the course of the conversation, he revealed that he believed we were in his apartment, and then I knew that, you know, we weren't, we were losing hold on our grounding, so I don't recommend that, I don't have a whole lot to say about it, apparently it's a, it's a thing for magic, power magic, and I've never been particularly interested in that because I'm afraid of it, I'm, I'm a watcher, I like to look, I like to get very close to it and watch it, but I'm not into grabbing it or doing anything with it, I, I have a feeling that would lead to catastrophe for me personally. Okay, where are we now? Northern Mexico, now we've gone all around, we started in Europe, we went down into Africa, across the Eurasian continent, North America, Northern Mexico, now things get interesting because as you leave the Sonoran uplands and go south, in the Sierra Mazateca, it is this mushroom complex, which Valentina and Gordon Wasson discovered in the 1953s, 17 to 22 species, it depends on who's counting, of extremely endemic, meaning very localized species of mushrooms, all producing psilocybin, a coincident with the Mayan, the cultural side of the Mayan Mixtec and Mazatecan civilizations, and this is psilocybin, an extraordinarily powerful, visionary, and benign hallucinogenic metabolite. Once the Wassons had nailed down this Mexican mushroom complex, then people started checking and they discovered these mushrooms or conspecific species in many localities. Two that are worth mentioning are the Pacific Northwest, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia, which appears to be the world's center for species density of the psilocybin gene, and strangely enough, very good ethnographic research turns up no hint that these Kwakutl, Shimsham, Tlingit, and other people had any hint of this. They lived in the center of the psilocybin distribution complex, and as far as we can tell, their shamanism, which was highly evolved, never discovered or made use of this, not so these civilizations of Mesoamerica. The other place where these mushrooms have now been discovered, and the range seems to be extending every year, is Europe. The tragedy of European civilization is that the Logos was apparently there all the time. The English countryside, I understand, is now practically a scene of annual mushroom runs that are not unlike the lemming runs of Scandinavia, and everybody pours out to collect the semi-Lanceata mushrooms. I've been told, I haven't been to these sites, but I've been told that Ionia, where the Book of Kells was composed and where St. Columba went, is covered with mushrooms. It's very clearly a mushroom ecology. Attention graduate students, the tracing of mushroom motifs in European art and civilization and culture is an extremely rich, untapped field. If you need some clues, look at family escutcheons, look at family crests. In France, and the Italian parts of France, the Morelli family has the Morel on their escutcheon. There are other mushroom families and mushroom names. So there may have been, you know, this may have been the struggle between paganism and Christianity may have revolved around a mushroom. We know Druids were into plants, we know they were into oak groves, but the plant that is always mentioned as the Druidic, psychedelic, psychic plant of choice is mistletoe. But mistletoe is chemically very disappointing, and I've wondered if mistletoe is not, it wasn't the plant they wanted to symbolize, they wanted to symbolize the symbiosis of one plant upon another. It's that the mistletoe symbolizes epiphytic existence. Anyway, this is an untapped area. Once you get into the New World tropics, then you are in the great domain of the hallucinogenic plants, and no one knows why it is that the tropics of the New World are tremendously rich in hallucinogens. I mean, I don't know how many of you are botanists or biologists, but try to imagine figuring out a set of evolutionary constraints that were operating on one side of the planet, but not on the other. You know, when we take, for instance, the jungles of southern Colombia and compare them with, let us say, the jungles of New Guinea, these are both continental floras, both equatorial, both climaxed at a species-rich climax, and one has dozens of hallucinogens in it, and the other has none. None. This is not well understood. I mean, theories range as wildly as, obviously, that South America must be where the flying saucer landed, and, you know, that's where the genes were seeded. I confess I'm not sure why it is. At first I thought that it had to do with the extremely primitive state, so-called primitive, the extremely archaic state of culture in the South American jungles, that they represent a real Stone Age culture, where when you go into Indonesia, it may look primitive to you, but the Dutch were there before the English arrived in North America. It is, it has had centuries and centuries for which, in which these things could be forgotten, but of course then come the botanists, who care nothing for ethnographic data, and who simply carry out plant surveys and chemical analysis of plants. They can't find these hallucinogens either, so this is a great mystery. In the tropics of Mesoamerica and the equatorial tropics of the New World, there's a vast panoply of hallucinogens, not only the mushroom complex, but then also this ayahuasca or Yahé complex that we've referred to several times. This is a huge jungle vine, and as we cross into the Yahé area, we also cross, we cross an interesting barrier, because we move from plants, single plants, which are hallucinogenically active, into the realm of preparations. We're on the threshold of the concept drug here, because what ayahuasca is, is two plants which are not active unless brought into combination with each other. One plant contains a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, and the other plant contains DMT, which would be destroyed in the gut if taken orally, unless it were taken orally in the presence of an MAO inhibitor. Well, this was not understood by Western pharmacology until 1956, but it was understood by Amazonian shamans millennia ago. So they bring these two things together, and by varying the ratio between the plant containing the beta-carbolines that inhibit MAO and the plants that contain DMT, they can intensify or de-emphasize the vision. Well, most of the hallucinogens in the Amazon basin run on tryptamine of some sort, usually DMT. In the upper basin of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, like that, you get these yaje ayahuasca beverages. These are things you drink, and then it comes on, you know, these outlandish trips. As you go down into the lower basin, the Banisteriopsis cult gives way to these snuff cults, Ibina and Neopo, depending on the languages. These don't depend on an MAO inhibitor for their activity because they're absorbed through the subnasal mucosa, which is an extremely effective way for getting drugs into the system. The problem with these, with that complex, the snuff complex, is that we are just physically such delicate and wimpy people that we can't stand that route of drug administration, because what they do is they toast these seeds of Anadenanthera paragrina, this huge leguminous tree which is the source of the seeds. They toast these seeds and powder them, so what you get is a kind of rough cross between sawdust and charcoal, and then they have a hollow tube about this long, and they load it up with this stuff, and you squat down and put the nostril, the tube into your nostril, and your friend, your friend, not you, because you would not do it hard enough. Your friend then takes a huge breath of air and, and it's just like being hit in the face with a two-by-four. I mean, it's like being hit in the face, and you fall over backwards, you scream, you salivate, you squirm around there in the dirt for a minute or two, and then you sit back up, and by that time the tube has been reloaded for the other