Well, this is this thing where I say culture is not your friend, and those people being warehoused and hooked up to the TV and the burbs, they're the people who didn't find this out in time, you know, and now are mainlining culture, and it is, you know, in terms of cutting your social effectiveness, it's as effective as heroin. So, but I don't think it's always been like this. I think society has, culture has always been somewhat unfriendly to the individual, but it's only within the 20th century that all this has been understood explicitly, and some people have set out to use these facts against the rest of us. Modern advertising, I mean modern advertising, advertising, the impulse of advertising is to inform you of what is available in the marketplace. Seems a harmless and reasonable thing. You should know what is available in the marketplace. But then comes the psychology of advertising, and then this is to pick your pocket and make you buy things whether you need them or not, and it does it by, first of all, inculcating in you a feeling of helplessness and inferiority, unless you drive this car, wear these shoes, this cologne, so it, you diminish the customer in order to aggrandize the product. But notice that the customer is a human being, the product is a thing. This begins to look like a crime against humanity. We, you, modern marketing travels on ungratified desire. Show people that, you know, even if you buy the $12,000 car, the $75,000 car would make you so much happier, and of course true ecstasy is the $200,000 car. So there's no satisfaction, no limit, and at the tail end of this process is completely unexamined policies of resource extraction, abuse of the environment, and we tend to think that you can't do it any other way, that this vast consumer economy is the only way a modern civilization could possibly function, but in fact it's a self-limiting potlatch of some sort. Do you all know what a potlatch is? A potlatch is among the Northwest Coast Indians, it's an interesting approach to consumerism. Among the Northwest Coast Indians, gift giving is a big deal, but the potlatch is when you can give so much gifts that you can burn them. This is considered the highest form of consumerism among the Haida and these people, is to burn all the physical goods, and it's a form of display. These things cost money and are fine objects, but you destroy them to prove essentially how much money and power you have. Well, we're in that situation. Everything is disposable, everything is throwaway, and growing away from this is very difficult. I mean, it essentially requires responsibility and integrity, which is the last thing anybody wants to hear. They want to hear that, I don't know, chelated enzymes, or a particular form of therapy, or Darshan with Guru Ma, or something else is going to make it all alright. No, just individual moral responsibility is the basis for intelligent existence, and this should be obvious to most people, except that the cacophony of the marketplace is making it so hard to figure this out. Did you? Yeah. I'm interested in how a lot of the things that you've been discussing relate to what you allude to as living in the imagination, you know, talking about cultural limitations makes me think about limited patterns of perception, and what psychedelics seem to help you do is decondition you from those previous limited patterns of perception, give you a glimpse of what is possible, although if you try too quickly to define it, you failed the intelligence test, as you say, because what is trying to help you to glimpse is what is beyond another level of limitation, and culture can be like a group mind that you buy into that's a very limited pattern of thinking. Technologies, cutting-edge technologies like nanotechnology seem to be moving in the direction of living in the imagination, that is what previously is only envisioned is now materialized, and again psychedelics seem to intimate that, the experience itself seems to point towards what is previously thought of as beyond the possible as now an open towards envisioning that possibility, and again you allude to a future vision of living in the imagination, the union of spirit and matter, and that's kind of the common theme that I pick up with a lot of things that are being discussed here, and I'm curious what your concepts are. Well the reason I think psychedelics are an antidote to this commodification and juvenilization is because they not only dissolve boundaries, but they also show you inner worth, in other words they show you that you, who you previously dismissed, have more beauty in your head than Cartier's and Tiffany's and all the rest of it put together, so you don't need to go to Henry Winston or Harry Winston or Cartier's, you have inner worth, you don't need a car, a house of great expense, and then the other thing is these technologies are allowing us to vivify the imagination and to make it very real, in fact to make it something we can walk into. I tried it out on my staff group and it didn't seem to get very far, but I really think every single one of us should be learning how to expand our communication skills, that this is our task for the rest of our lives, to learn how to communicate with each other, to communicate verbally, by touch, but also accept these technologies. I've spent the last six weeks learning how to three-dimensionally model objects and then animate them, texture map them, color them, because I've spent my whole life clawing the air and raving about hallucinations, and no one could ever see what I meant, but if I will cancel all engagements and work at my terminal for six months, I'll come back with 30 seconds of film that I'll just say that's my best shot to the limit of my present acquisition of skills, here's what I'm seeing. So, you know, it's not about rejecting the media or the marketplace, it's about changing your relationship to it. Do not consume. Produce. Into the vacuum of the producer-consumer relationship, inject your own art. Make sure that you are producing, not consuming, because the one stultifies, marginalizes, and creates a juvenile attitude, and the producing actually raises the sum total of consciousness of the human species. What we're debating and talking about now, myself and my friends, is trying to get someone to endow a prize that we would sneak onto the internet in the first stage as the psychedelic simulation prize. In other words, a $5,000 prize awarded once a year, a small statue of a smiling man, we'll call it the Tim. You can win the Tim for producing the best three-dimensional animation of a mental landscape. Well, probably from now till 2000, these will simply be videos, quick-time movies, but sometime beyond 2000, these will become VRML-coded virtual realities, and people will begin to walk into them. We'll still call it the prize for psychedelic simulation, but notice that once you can walk around inside these things, they become much more present. One of the things we've talked about over the past week is that I don't believe alien spaceships are visiting Earth to pull our chestnuts out of the fire or to do anything else of much interest, but I do think there is an alien presence. It's non-material. You contact it in the psychedelic experience. It's non-material. Well, then what is the nature of the alien presence? Well, its nature is informational. It is made of information. Well, you know how in all flying saucer cults and all B-movies of the 50s, there's always the awareness of the possibility of contact, and then there is the landing zone has to be created, and in Close Encounters, it was Devil's Tower out in Wyoming. This seems to be part of the archetype of the alien. What the alien needs to manifest among us is a suitable landing zone, and people say, well, the Nazca Lines, that was the landing zone. That's pretty lame. I mean, I won't even bother to deconstruct it. Surely, if you can come from Zanebulganubi, you don't need airport running lights to be waiting for you when you get here. So the landing zone, and I'm beginning to think that in a sense, the internet is a net to catch an alien, and the way you catch the alien is by writing the weirdest code you think you can think of, and integrating it into all the other weird codes you can find. Let's set out to build a virtual reality as alien as we can possibly make it, and if we connect our psychedelically empowered imagination to our coding fingers, we will discover when the chore is done that the thing we have created is so alien that it could only be the alien, and that in fact, the contact is now underway, because where the alien is is in some non-local bell sphere of universally accessible information. In other words, the imagination is like a field of data that is at the bell level of connectivity in the quantum mechanical universe, and there are aliens somewhere, galaxies away, tens of thousands, tens of millions of light years away. I mean, it's preposterous to assume that this is the only life in the universe, the only intelligent life in the universe. It's also pretty preposterous to assume that we are being physically visited by 16 different kinds of intelligent life. It means you just don't understand the distances involved, the time scales involved, what relativity has to say about approaching the speed of light, and so forth and so on. No, physically, we are alone, physically, but in the imagination, we're surrounded by distant friends, and their whisperings are our science, our mathematics, our religions, our culture. There may be many forms of intelligence in the universe whose thoughts are blowing through us at any given moment. Most of it, it's not on a humanly cognizable scale. In other words, it's either to something this way or to something that way, and when you look at it, you just say, for me, a human being, this is noise. But out of these many hundreds, thousands, millions of cross-channels of co-present bell data, some are enough like ourselves that we can at least discern resonances, and out of