What's gonna happen if you have to pay $4, then $4.50, perhaps more for gasoline at the pump? McDonald's already knows the answer because they just said it. Customers are gonna have to cut back even more than they have already. This is why oil and energy shocks are not inflationary. They act like a tax on consumers and businesses, particularly the smaller variety. They have to pull back in other areas because you can't really cut back on energy usage. It's an inelastic product, as economists say. You gotta pay whatever it costs to get it. Even driving, think about it. You drive the miles that you do mostly because you have to. Going to work, going to the store, picking up your kids. You can cut out some of the discretionary travel, but that's not really enough to make up the difference in price. Small businesses, they don't have any choice either. They've gotta reduce their costs somewhere else. They sure aren't gonna be hiring anyone. So instead, they pull back raises, they trim hours, and if oil goes up enough and stays there too long, they start letting employees go, start letting more employees go than they have already thus far. And what happens when there are a few more workers laid off than there have been? It means fewer are able to spend at Walmart or buy a Pepsi and even less customer traffic at McDonald's in spite of lower prices. I mean, people are on the edge already right now before the shock. That's the message that we're getting from these companies. It's why they're cutting prices and ditching their previous strategies from top to bottom. Consumers are not doing well from well before the Iran matter. So here's the real downside case. Surging energy has that potential to break the back of the consumer that we already see, it's already confirmed in dire straits. And this is where 2026 is far more dangerous than back in 2022. Because back then, the economy was still on an upswing. It wasn't a recovery, it wasn't a full one, but there was a lot of forward momentum, which does make a big difference. More was going up than down, so it helped cushion the blow, even as serious one as the supply shock and oil price spike that we got back then. But even then, it created recessions around the world in 2022 and 2023 and left us sputtering with forgot how to grow ever since then. Almost four years of it and job losses that are already happening, incomes way too far behind, consumer sentiment deeply negative and all these other negatives, energy really has the possibility of pushing everything over the edge. That's the parallel to 1990, 1973, 1979, I've talked about these before. Back in 1990, there was a weak economy being undermined by the credit crunch that was brought on by the SNL crisis. Saddam Hussein comes along and invades Kuwait, oil goes from 15 to 40 in three months, jobs weren't even being lost when the shock started, but they sure were by the time the price peaked. It pushed the US and much of the rest of the world right over the edge. So right now with the CME, wholesale gasoline is trading 3.10, I've seen as high as 3.20 this morning. That's up from around $2 per gallon. Remember, this is wholesale, not retail, wholesale, from $2 to 3.10, 3.20 per gallon in a matter of weeks. That's an energy shock if ever there was one. The good news is if it turns around tomorrow, the damage will be minimal. The bad news is, as I keep saying in this video, we're in a race against time. Because a 60% increase in a short period of time certainly qualifies for a shock, but there are two key components to this, this race against time. One is obviously how high prices might go, but maybe the more important one is how long they could stay there. In 1990, prices truly soared, energy prices truly soared, but it only took a couple of months for them to do all that damage to a weak economy, just a couple of months. And it's not only gasoline either. Diesel, as you'd expect, that has skyrocketed too, reaching $5 per gallon retail. So let's go to CBS here. U.S. diesel prices jumped above $5 a gallon on Tuesday, marking the highest level since December 2022 as the strain on global energy markets from the war with Iran continues to ripple through the American economy. Diesel prices reached $5.04 a gallon up from $4.78 a week ago and from $3.65 over a month ago, according to data from AAA. Until we see a meaningful resumption of oil flows through the Strait of Hormuz, upward pressure on fuel prices is likely to persist, according to some guy, a petroleum expert at GasBuddy. The last time diesel topped $5 a gallon was December 2022, as we just said. At that point, prices were receding after hitting a record high of $5.81 in June 2022. When fuel prices spiked during Russia's invasion of Ukraine. And that's the good part. It's still early in all this, so we do have time, but remember and notice, we are in a race against time. Because as we just went through and all the data backs this up, consumers truly are in bad shape. Thus, McDonald's lowering prices yet again. Even higher income earners are struggling to the benefit of Dollar Tree. Pour some $5 diesel fuel and gasoline on that fire, and maybe it doesn't ignite too badly if we're only talking about a couple of weeks, maybe a month. But the longer it goes, the longer it drags on, the greater the chance something really does break. And that's before considering the other negatives, the other big negatives, like a breakdown in the stock market is potentially one that would really break higher income consumers, or a further blow and a further blow up in private credit. So maybe the better analogy isn't a race, it's like we're stuck in a very narrow channel with mines all over the place. The longer we're stuck in that channel, trying to navigate our way through it, the greater the chance of hitting one. That's where the economy is, and who cares what the Fed's dots were today? So we've got signals from McDonald's and Dollar Tree, we've got data, we've got the dollar, potential dollar shock on top of everything else, a race against time there. Went over the details in the video link below. As always, thank you very much for joining me. Join me March 26th, webinar link in the description. Huge thanks to you at our university members and subscribers, and until next time, take care.