McDonald's is at it again, which goes to show we really are in a race against time. Now the fast food giant just announced it's creating a $3 value deal, and that's on top of bringing back the $5 value menu a couple years ago. And the timing is not an accident, the middle of 2024. When it did that back then, that was McDonald's way of confirming the transition to the flat part of the beverage curve, even if it took the payroll reports a couple of years to finally pick up on the same weakness. Here in 2026, McDonald's is doing it again, and they're not the only ones. We've got Pepsi, we've got Dollar Tree. Corporate strategies are changing, just in time for the energy shock. And you can tell something has definitely changed as far as these go to try to deal with growing consumer problems. And we'll look at these from two different perspectives. McDonald's like Pepsi on the one side, and Dollar Tree acting like Walmart on the other. These are unmistakable signals, unless of course you work at the Fed, but otherwise unambiguous signals from corporate America. And what they're all saying with increasing emphasis is that employment problems, the labor market being on the flat part of the beverage curve, they're now having a major impact on consumer spending. In fact, that was the whole point for McDonald's, confirming that consumers are pulling back and therefore they need to cut prices again. But here's the real challenge. These big companies are reacting to the economy as it was before March and the start of the energy price shock. There's a much bigger risk now, given what these businesses are saying about consumer spending, that the sudden surge in gasoline and diesel prices really could push everything right over the edge. Gasoline is up 50% in just a couple of weeks. Diesel just crossed the $5 mark for the first time since 2022. In the economy, it hasn't even begun to feel either of those at the ground level. So the longer the shock goes on, the more people and the more companies are going to see it. And what they're going to see is not inflation. It's a race against time, as you'll see. The Federal Reserve, by the way, they announced this afternoon that they're holding rates steady. They released their dots, which by the way, did not really show any rate hikes, instead more rate cuts, which suggests maybe the FOMC visited a McDonald's before they had their committee meeting, or maybe they just talked to operators in their regions. Either way, it's a race against time because of what McDonald's and other companies have been doing, have been forced to do before we get to energy prices. I mean, after all, when McDonald's begins lowering its own prices and saying it has to compete for core customers, that's not a good sign. McDonald's is rolling out its cheapest value manual in years, a move that could speak more to the state of the American economy than it does fast food. Even as sales rose for the quarter, executives at the world's largest burger chain acknowledged in its February earnings call the fast food environment, which has pulled back in recent quarters, would, quote, remain challenging in 2026. That's not good. Despite the company's own progress attracting lower income customers in the company's fourth quarter, this tier of consumers who have been dealing with stubborn inflation for years, it's really not price changes or inflation, it's really incomes, they are broadly pulling back on spending. There it is. And to address this issue, CEO Chris Kemshinky said during the company's latest earnings call, the restaurant chain would double down on its commitment to value and deeper discount. Translation, we're being forced to cut prices. Quote, McDonald's is not going to get beat on value and affordability, what the CEO said during the call last month. So for the first couple of years, I forgot how to grow. If you've forgotten the McDonald's story, the restaurant chain arrogantly raised its prices, thinking the economy was eventually going to live up to the hype, as told by Jay Powell, that it would fully recover from the early 2020s. So they raised prices and immediately began sacrificing traffic and volume as fewer and fewer of their core customers were able to afford their not quite as cheap hamburgers. Right around 2024, however, that same time frame, that same time period, right when the last couple of oil shocks were really beginning to destroy demand and further undermine the already weak labor market, which sent it to the flat part of the beverage curve for the first time, that's when McDonald's brought back its $5 value menu. And as I told you at the time, back when everybody was talking about sticky inflation, and Jay Powell was still calling the labor market strong and resilient, the fact that McDonald's was not just doubting its prior strategy of raising prices, the fast food chain was actively reversing course on it, that was not a good sign as to the state of the economy, as to the transition in the state of the economy. In fact, here's what I told you back at the end of July 2024, right as the carry trade was beginning to blow up, which signaled, which further signaled along with McDonald's, the labor market and economic situation had indeed reached that critical point. Adjusted for population, the hiring ratio was, well, you're going to have to see for yourself just how bad it's gotten. Yet the government's press release somehow claimed hiring was, quote, little changed on the month. You'll have to see that one for yourself too. No wonder McDonald's can't sell its cheap cheeseburgers, since all of these things are related. The most widely known restaurant chain just posted its first negative same store sales comparison since, you guessed it, 2020. This isn't just a US problem either, it's happening all over the world as Mickey D's reported in its latest results. Everyone keeps saying their customers can't handle price changes, quote, unquote inflation, but that isn't anything new. Moreover, the rate of change for consumer prices has come way down. What has changed is the labor market. And while the government may say hiring is little changed in June, Americans, bull steepening bonds and sharply lower commodities absolutely know the difference. Just look at oil and gasoline prices here. And keep in mind, back then there hadn't even been job losses, but there was, as I just talked about in that video, a growing plethora of signs for lower labor demand. Therefore, exactly what the flat part of the beverage curve begins to describe. So fast forward to March 2026. And what is McDonald's doing right now? Well, like we just said, they're lowering prices yet again. And why? Same reason the company did the first time. Their customers have only struggled even more between then and now. And the situation for consumers not getting any better with the labor market going even flatter on the beverage curve to where we just don't have enough income to go around and pay for higher prices. We don't even have enough jobs anymore either. And the job losses have only made the bad situation that much worse. And that's just what McDonald's is telling us by making even more price cuts. If big companies, big companies like McDonald's are struggling this hard to maintain business and keep consumers coming in, what does that say about the problems among smaller and mid-sized businesses as well as consumers? This is why flat beverage is behind everything that we see up to and including the private credit bus. With everything that's going on in private credit and the real economy on top of everything, the confirmation we keep getting, this is why we got to go over where everything stands in our webinar. Thursday, March 2026, 6 p.m. Eastern Time. There's a link in the description for you to sign up. We're going to talk about where everything stands after everything has shaken up more recently, the recent developments, what it all means, what's really going on behind the scenes, and therefore looking ahead what we can tell about what stage we're in, what the stage has been, are we heading into another stage, all of that stuff. So join me again Thursday, March 26, 6 p.m. Eastern Time. Link in the description to sign up. I hope to see you there. It's going to be well worth your time to attend because we have a lot to go over. And they're hardly alone. We've seen something similar go on from Wendy's and Taco Bell and a bunch of others who are now having to compete for struggling customers. Pepsi, that's another one. I talked about that before. Pepsi has been cutting prices after for years, raising them, sacrificing volume, and expecting that the robust recovery would eventually bring them back at the higher price points, just like McDonald's was hoping for. I mean, if the economy recovered, then no big deal. They get the business back as soon as it started to act like how Jay Powell and the mainstream and the stock market described it the entire time. Yes, they would lose some value in the short run. They definitely did that. But they would get prices to go up. And once business boomed, it would be at that higher level. But early last month, Pepsi finally admitted that was a pretty dumb idea. Bad economics and a bad decision following the Fed's models. And here's what I told you in early February. But then what happens if Powell was wrong, not just is wrong, but was wrong? Or if he was right, then maybe circumstances have changed. Once you realize the customers that you lost because they couldn't afford your higher prices aren't going to come back, since nothing for them has changed, they still can't afford even higher prices. What do you do then? For Pepsi, having realized they backed the wrong economic horse, Chair Powell, they're now trying to correct for it. Let's go to Reuters. Quote, PepsiCo will cut prices on core brands such as Lay's and Doritos by up to 15 percent following a consumer backlash against several previous price hikes, the snacks and beverage makers said on Tuesday after it topped fourth quarter results. As U.S. consumers struggle to afford essentials due to inflation, not really inflation, lack of income and delayed food stamp benefits, it's really lost jobs. Companies such as P&G, Coca-Cola and now PepsiCo have lowered entry price points to safeguard market share. And this is my favorite quote of this entire passage here. We spent the past year listening closely to customers and they've told us they're feeling the strain and that was Rachel Fernandino, who's the CEO of PepsiCo Foods U.S. and she says the new prices will be on shelves this week. Now we all know they didn't need to conduct focus groups or send out consumer surveys. The reason they're lowering their prices was all over their quarterly earnings. This is just a happy corporate talk trying to soften their major mistake in raising prices in the first place. We're doing it for the customers, they say. Give me a break. They're doing it because those customers have no jobs, not enough income to come back to pay for the more expensive soda and potato chips like everyone was expecting when they were listening to Jay Powell. So this you can tell it's an economy-wide reckoning in a way. The price hiking strategy of the early 2020s is increasingly dead. What killed it was nothing more than flat beverage. They forgot how to grow economy which started remembering how to fire some workers and not just forget how to hire any. This is exactly what McDonald's is saying, what the Golden Archers are actually doing, and Pepsi following along with so many other examples. Now from another perspective on the other side, so to speak, there are those who are taking advantage of the situation. I don't mean that negatively. They're taking the bad economy and turning it into an opportunity because the bad economy is foisting that opportunity right into their laps. It's another sign that corporate America has finally shed its prior illusions about a consumer-led economic revival. Quite the contrary, it's concerns about a consumer-led further downturn. And one of those who is on the good side of this, so to speak, that's Dollar Tree. The discount store is following Walmart's lead or maybe more accurately higher income shoppers that are seeking out discount stores are just falling into their lap. For the last little while, we talked about this before, Walmart has been producing stellar results, sales growth, and all of that, which is never a good sign for the economy. Moreover, those results were largely driven by wealthier consumers who are now searching for bargains, telling you that the struggles were not just at the bottom, they are relatively widespread. Meanwhile, at the same time, Walmart's core shoppers, like those from McDonald's, from the lower income tiers, they were having an increasingly hard time buying what they used to. For the retail giant, it was seeing enough of the higher income folks come in and buy enough to offset the hardship losses among its core customers. And the same phenomena has happened at Dollar Tree, believe it or not. The ultra discount retailer just reported decent quarterly results that, unfortunately for the economy, mimic Walmart. It's good for Dollar Tree, like Walmart, but it's unfortunate because of what it says about the state of the consumer economy. No surprise though, this is just merely the other side of what's taking place at McDonald's. So let's go to Bloomberg here. Dollar Tree's strategy to introduce higher priced items is helping it increase sales, especially with wealthier shoppers. The discounter has been shifting merchandise in stores to sell more goods in the range of three to five dollars, including toys and party supplies that boosted results last quarter. The influx of shoppers with higher incomes is helping the company maintain sales, even as some of its core customers with less money are pulling back amid rising gasoline prices. This is before the rising gasoline prices. That's really a big point here. Dollar Tree's cheaper prices have been resonating with consumers facing economic stress, just as you would think. I mean, this economic stuff is really pretty simple. And that includes households earning at least a hundred thousand, just like Walmart, which have been driving much of its growth. Meanwhile, lower income shoppers are turning to the chain's larger pack sizes that help them stretch their paycheck and make their budgets work for them, according to Dollar Tree's chief executive officer, Michael Creeden, and what he said on his conference call with analysts. So wealthier customers are now the growth strategy at discount stores, which in any kind of legitimately healthy economy, they wouldn't go anywhere near. At the same time, those same core customers, those for Dollar Tree, from Walmart, for McDonald's, for Pepsi, they can no longer afford to shop at these places or buy, which each one of those is selling, absent significant price cuts, more price cuts. And the Fed is worried about inflation, or at least talking about being worried about inflation. And that's before getting to the next shoe to drop. And that shoe is the energy shock. So we're in an unhealthy situation by every account, an unhealthy situation up until March. And then you pour, pardon the metaphor here, then you pour some literal gasoline prices on that smoldering economic fire. And the risk is you have this race against time. So if you're having a hard time going out to McDonald's or buying what you normally need for everyday life at Dollar Tree, what's going to happen?